take a look at this photo if you think
it's just a ship moored next to a beach
then you're missing something big and
take a look at this building in East
London it may look like a regular boring
old office block and that's kind of the
point in fact all these places are part
of an unknown infrastructure Network
that never stops running and keeps
everything from your fridge to this
video working
as well as keeping your phone connected
to the modern world they could also soon
heat your local hospital or run your
local pool that's because they contain
the cables servers and computers that
make up the internet and despite their
inconspicuous nature data centers like
these are some of the most Innovative
engineering to be found today
maybe you've never thought about it but
every video you watch every photo you
look at and every article you read all
lands onto your device thanks to a vast
Global infrastructure called the
internet backbone among other things
it's made up of over half a million
miles of undersea cables hundreds of
exchange points and around 8 000 data
centers this enables the data for this
video to be requested anywhere on Earth
and sent near the speed of light to your
phone tablet or laptop data centers can
be used for general internet traffic or
for specific uses like this one used to
host Microsoft cloud services it's one
of more than 300 that Microsoft runs
across 140 countries
constructing Microsoft data centers is a
massive undertaking that can run up to
five years from conception to launch it
begins with a comprehensive assessment
which looks at economic political and
environmental risks along with security
insurability and Market demands once all
that's decided design and construction
follows which involves permitting
material sourcing and security measures
all of which engages a diverse Workforce
these projects generate 300 to 400 jobs
annually covering electricians plumbers
Carpenters steel workers and more with
millions of work hours devoted to each
building Microsoft also prioritizes
reducing greenhouse gas emissions during
construction cutting concrete and steel
embodied carbon by 30 to 60 percent by
exploring low carb materials after
completing the physical infrastructure
engineering teams integrate essential
hardware and software enabling the
Microsoft cloud to run efficiently each
of these sites is built around the needs
of these this is where the internet
lives a single rack of these blade
servers can store several petabytes of
data
when you look at a Data Center and you
will see rows and rows and rows of these
servers and each server basically runs
anywhere from Seven kilowatts up to 48
kilowatts of power consumption so
they're really high performance compute
with millions of data bits that come in
and out of those servers at a time
to keep all that happening they need to
be powered cooled connected to the
outside world and kept safe that's no
small task for the teams responsible for
Designing and constructing them safety
is a critical issue here because if the
internet backbone goes down then the
internet goes down like in 2008 when
Egypt suffered a near total loss of
Internet after a submarine cable was cut
in the Mediterranean Sea we build
security around the outer parameter
where we have security security guards
the whole building is sectioned off
inside with a security station then you
have to identify yourself and and if
you're an employee you have a badge and
you can come through through the
building but the best offense is just
not to draw attention which is why the
location and identity of most of this
infrastructure isn't on a map or even
signpost it we don't put a big Microsoft
billboard out out front to the data
center you wouldn't even know it was a
Microsoft data center if you drove by at
the heart of this secure compound are
the server rooms themselves
the servers are linked by fiber optic
cables which are in turn linked with
other server rooms in the same Facility
by super high capacity cables to create
a core Network
keeping a constant power supply is
crucial for every megawatt a data center
is powered by it has just over one
megawatts in battery storage and Diesel
Generator backup
in an emergency centers can run for an
average of 48 hours off this backup
Supply before they need refueling
but aside from the energy used to keep
the servers running a lot of power is
needed to keep them cool because of the
amount of electricity they consume
servers produce a lot of heat which if
left unchecked could damage or even
destroy the equipment
how that heat is managed is constantly
evolving in the past we use just air to
cool uh servers and you know just like
your desktop you've got you open up your
desktop there's a fan in it and there's
heatsinks blowing air through everything
to keep it cool the beauty is once you
go to liquid cooling
it's much easier to pipe away that hot
fluid
so now you could actually start
transmitting that fluid to like District
heating or to a pool the neighborhood
pool
these kind of heat exchanges are already
in use in Finland workers underway on a
heat exchange in the southern town of
espu a nearby Microsoft data center will
make use of low air temperatures to cool
its server racks as the air warms it
goes through a heat exchanger which is
connected to the district heating system
the scheme will help the region reach
its ambitious CO2 emission reduction
targets and that's important because by
2025 data centers will use 20 percent of
the world's electricity but the need to
reduce carbon emissions and cope with
ever greater amounts of data is driving
rapid Innovation this is Microsoft's
product Natick located off the northern
Isles in Scotland
and it took the idea of water cooling to
a whole new level
and the whole notion was well the ocean
is cool and we would have cooling right
there and and so uh it really worked
very well and in fact what we also found
was that because it was purged with
nitrogen and there was no oxygen in the
vessel the reliability of the components
was on the order of eight times more
reliable
but if you think this is a radical idea
future data centers might not look like
a data center at all we could learn from
nature and actually develop data centers
that are mutualistically working
together with nature how do we look at
this game differently how do we make the
data center disappear I don't want to
say visually but make it just one you
don't actually look for a beaver dam in
the woods it's just integrated into it
how does a data center just kind of
disappear as one with what's around it
and it's actually helping create oxygen
as a CO as opposed to consuming oxygen
it creates water as opposed to consuming
water this project near Amsterdam is
going to be integrated into the local
ecosystem forests and Wetland are going
to be planted around the center which
will boost biodiversity as well as
creating greater storm resilience for
the area
so next time you're on a sunny Beach
holiday or walking past a beaver dam you
never know you could be just the other
side of some of the most pioneering
engineering this planet has ever seen
this video was sponsored by Microsoft
you can learn more about that at the
link below there's also the chance to
dive deeper on this and other topics on
our Channel over on the world's best
construction podcast available now
wherever you get your podcasts and as
always if you enjoyed this video and you
want to get more from the definitive
video channel for construction make sure
you're subscribed to the b1m
[Music]
thank you
