hmm
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
foreign
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
foreign
[Music]
foreign
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
home
it's time to learn geography hey
everybody I'm your host barbs by the way
you can get geography now merged like
this geography now shirt at geography
now.com not selling out if it's your
brand so we did the UAE the UK and now
the last of the United triplet countries
after doing this channel for nearly a
decade of my life it's finally time we
have made it to my home country let's
make this a big one here we go welcome
to the United States of America
[Music]
the USA is a very complex place when it
comes to the way that it's structured
and the way that the domain administers
itself it's almost like 50 many
countries and five territories with
their own unique identities yet they all
speak the same language and have some
common understanding of American life
everything is bigger wider spread out we
love shopping and having everything
conveniently available now and that's
why we invented things like fast food
the parking lot the modern shopping mall
Highway service plazas drive-throughs
the barcode pricing system credit cards
escalators and public restrooms are are
everywhere and they're free in any case
apart from that little civil structure
overview let's look at the map and
discuss the actual location and
sovereignty of the USA shall we first of
all the USA is located on the North
American continent with the main chunk
of the country known as the lower 48
where 98 of the population lives is
sandwiched between the Atlantic and
Pacific Oceans to the east and west and
Canada and Mexico border them on the
North and South the country consists of
50 states divided into 3143 counties or
County equivalents 3243 if you include
territory divisions three states have
weird detached exclaims on the Canadian
border they are the Northwest angle and
Elm Point for Minnesota Point Roberts
Washington and Albert Vermont the only
state distinctly divided into two
continental land-based units is Michigan
with the upper and lower peninsulas the
capital of the country is Washington DC
which is a federal district not
belonging to any state and is under
Direct Control of Congress despite
having a higher population than some
states in addition the USA has five
major unincorporated territories they
are Puerto Rico the U.S Virgin Islands
American Samoa Guam and the Northern
Mariana Islands in addition there are
nine minor outlying islands all of which
are also unincorporated except for
Palmyra atoll for some reason even
though all these islands have no
permanent population the US has a
disputed claim over two small sandbank
islands in the Caribbean as well both
administered by Colombia they are the
Serenia bank and the bajo Nuevo Bank as
well that being said this means if you
include all the territories and
dependency the USA has a total of 11
time zones although only nine of them
are used by people two strange time zone
anomalies exist the first one being the
little and big diomede Islands between
Alaska and Russia and American Samoa and
Samoa the diomedes are less than three
miles away and are visible to each other
yet they straddle the International Date
Line and are hence an entire day apart
from each other in addition there are
325 Native American reservations spread
throughout the lower 48. these areas
although under U.S federal territory
have a degree of autonomy for the native
tribes that administer them the largest
cities in the USA population wise are
New York Los Angeles and Chicago the
busiest airports however are Atlanta
Hartsfield Jackson Dallas Fort Worth and
Denver International the US has an
incredibly wide network of roads and
highways connecting all states except
Hawaii obviously the longest one being
U.S Route 20 although the US does have a
relatively wide rail network for freight
trains passenger train lines have
decreased over the years in favor of
Road Transport and today the only
long-distance inner city network is
operated by Amtrak our largest shipping
Port is the Port of Los Angeles in
conjunction with the Port of Long Beach
which are two separate entities yet
physically joined finally one last thing
although the USA has no claim over
Antarctica we do have the largest
Antarctic station at mcmurdle which can
facilitate up to a thousand people and
we also have the only station located on
the geographic South Pole at Edmondson
Scott station in case if you were
wondering it follows the plus 12 UTC
time zone fun fact did you know that in
Hawaii it's actually illegal to laugh
loudly so you kind of have to keep it at
a low ha
few side notes one I made a video
explaining the Native American
reservations and statistical areas as
well as territories of the USA I figured
they deserve their own videos because
it's a big topic check them out two each
state and territory has their own flag
license plate design and nickname for
example the state I was born in
Minnesota is the land of ten thousand
lakes Indiana I still have no idea what
a Hoosier is but you do you cities have
nicknames too like Chicago is shy town
or the windy city New York the Big Apple
Orlando the Big Orange Seattle is the
Emerald City and so on three yes the USA
is a Car Country it's part of our
culture see the majority of our country
was built post-industrial Revolution so
many of our cities have easily navigable
straight grid like Road networks with
accommodating wider roads as opposed to
the spiderweb of narrow medieval
Cobblestone alleys built for pedestrians
in the U.S you can get your own license
at age 16 for many of us it's a rite of
passage and bragging right in high
school to show off your car even if
you're just borrowing mom's minivan four
we also kind of have an awkward
situation with Guantanamo Bay which is
located in Cuba it's kind of like this I
am the first president of Cuba now that
we are independent from the US I will
offer you a Perpetual lease to
Guantanamo Bay awesome we'll pay you
guys every year
we are the new Cuba we don't want you
get out hey your old president agreed a
Perpetual lease to us until both
countries agree or we abandoned the
property we don't want to do that we're
going to stay here well uh yeah
Revolution we don't recognize that
treaty well we do here's your lease
check for the year thanks for doing
business I'll shake myself we'll see you
next year okay okay oh yeah that's the
other thing at one point the USA took
administrative control over Cuba after
the Spanish-American war in addition to
Guam Puerto Rico and the Philippines of
course the Philippines and Cuba gained
their own independence and the US also
used to control the Panama Canal Zone
for about 70 years it was like all right
Panama you're getting your independence
from us whoa me gusta but I agreed to
let the Americans have sovereignty over
the Canal Zone because you know they're
they're kind of building it what the I
mean uh you want us to leave and take
all of our money and you finish building
it or ah for now no let's talk in 70
years okay then yeah in addition after
World War II we took administrative
control over many of the islands in the
Pacific that Japan used to control the
three micronesian Island groups of allow
the Marshall Islands and the Federated
States of Micronesia were labeled as U.S
trust territories until they gained
independence in 1986. today they are the
only countries that have the compact of
free association status meaning the U.S
provides defense financial assistance
and Social Services to the countries
whereas the citizens are allowed to move
live and work in the U.S and easily
obtain citizenship if they desire and in
return they allow the us to have
military bases in any case every section
of the United States has a unique story
on how it eventually became part of the
country it basically goes like this for
example the USA started as 13 British
colonies that pretty much operated
everything east of the Mississippi River
at one point everything up to what is
now Minnesota was just called Virginia
in 1803 we obtained the Louisiana
Purchase from France which didn't even
have a properly defined western border
it just kind of arbitrarily ended at the
Rockies this doubled the size of the
country and a bunch of Acadian
french-speaking criminals from Canada
suddenly became American in 1819 we
expanded to the Pacific for the first
time and had a shared condominium with
the British in Oregon Territory two
years later Florida was seated to us
from Spain in a treaty in which we said
that we would cede any claims to Texas
while long story incredibly short the
Texans and Texas kind of fought Mexico
and became their own country for 10
years and then decided to see their
country back to the USA in 1848 the
Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo ended the
Mexican-American War and the Alta
California area was seated to the USA
and after some quick borderline
readjustments and new States popping up
the continuous USA was complete the
guano Islands act started in the 1850s
got us to claim a bunch of random small
islands in the Pacific and the Caribbean
Civil War split us up for about 10 years
but then we reunited meanwhile Alaska
was purchased by Russia 1898 Hawaii was
annexed from the Kingdom of Hawaii one
year later after the Spanish-American
War a bunch of new islands joined but
only Puerto Rico and Guam would stay as
territories one year later Samoa was
taken over under the tripartite
convention later only what is now
American Samoa would vote to remain and
finally in 1917 we bought the Virgin
Islands from Denmark yeah almost every
American has played the Oregon Trail in
school and has died of Disney Terry just
want to give a huge thanks to brighttrip
for making that animation you guys are
awesome check out their websites they
got some cool stuff hey we tried to buy
Greenland like three times and they kept
saying no but like come on Greenland
come on on that note you can kind of
tell the story behind places in the USA
based off the language the name comes
from for example many places in the
middle of the USA that used to be part
of the Louisiana Purchase have French
names like Lafayette Des Moines hell the
entirety of Louisiana was named after
King Louis the 16th 14th whatever we're
not French anymore places that used to
belong to Spain and later Mexico have
Spanish names like Puerto Rico San Diego
and yes even the city I live in Los
Angeles Los Angeles otherwise many
cities and half of all the states are
named after Native American words and or
anglicized versions of Native American
words Kentucky Ohio Oklahoma the city of
Chicago means Wild Onion in the Miami
Illinois tribe language in any case
basically our country was born out of
Revolution long story short we were a
colony of Great Britain not the UK yet
but Great Britain for about 1 170 years
until King George III came in and went
back crazy or at least that's how we see
it you know the Brits are more like you
ungrateful Colonials we declared
independence in 1776 which by the way
thank you Morocco for being the first
country in the world to recognize this
as a nation in 1777. hey I beat them to
it in 1776. hey you don't get to speak
for me as a nation as a whole you will
recognize them when I say so okay now
you can recognize them however the
fighting went on for seven more years
until the Treaty of Paris was signed in
which Britain officially recognized us
as a nation meanwhile Canada just up
north was like now I'm daddy's favorite
but then like 80 years later it was like
oh I'm still dad's favorite in any case
with the exception of a few other
political entities up until then most of
the world have been ruled either by
monarchs or some kind of singular
figurehead with huge Authority that all
Administration pointed towards the U.S
founding fathers developed a system of
mixing elements of English common law
Enlightenment philosophy classic
republicanism from ancient Greece and
Rome federalism and separation of of
power basically because we were so
traumatized by the monarchial rule we
wanted to make a country ruled by a
system that would make it really hard
for the government to have too much
power in addition we decided to become a
federation as in states share a singular
sovereignty and must abide by the same
Federal Constitution and the rights that
it gives like freedom of speech and
press but aside from that they have the
right to operate autonomously based on
whatever Regional values that each state
holds and votes on this is why sometimes
people have to cross state lines to do
things that might otherwise be illegal
in the states they live in important to
know not everything was perfect in the
beginning legislatively of course we
still had a long way to go and many
things to fix for example slavery was
still practice and it did have legal
Provisions women were not able to vote
and so on but for what it's worth the
USA was the first nation state founded
on enlightened principles of unalienable
natural rights consent of the governed
and liberal democracy so yeah
America in any case history is boring
let's look at some pretty pictures and
whatnot let's discuss the famous places
of the United States and I will do it
now we all know about the most
publicized landmarks like the Statue of
Liberty Las Vegas the Empire State
Building Times Square the Golden Gate
Bridge Mount Rushmore Grand Canyon
Lincoln Memorial Niagara Falls the
Hollywood Sign Gateway Arch and Disney
World the largest amusement park in the
world we have 130 national monuments and
24 UNESCO Heritage sites yeah yeah we
get it but let's talk about some of the
more underrated places that are just as
equally as fascinating as their over
publicized counterparts instead of New
York try Chicago instead of the Statue
of Liberty maybe check out the birth of
the new world or the dignity statue in
South Dakota instead of Mount Rushmore
try the Crazy Horse monument instead of
the Grand Canyon try Arches National
Park Vermillion Cliffs Devil's Tower and
my favorite spot in Monument Valley
instead of Disney World try Six Flags
Magic Mountain instead of the Golden
Gate Bridge try the Chesapeake Bay or
Sunshine Skyway or the Mackinac Bridges
or the lake pontchartran Causeway in
Louisiana the longest continuous bridge
in the world for history yes we have
history I'm talking about ancient
pre-colonial go to the Cahokia Mounds
Poverty Point Earthworks hovenweep Tonto
Chimney Rock Navajo National Monument or
the Pueblos of Mesa Verde Taos or the
choco culture National Historical Park
Aztec Ruins petrocliff National Monument
Montezuma Castle so many things we have
the tallest trees and the tallest tree
in the world the sailing stones of Death
Valley in Hawaii you can literally see
active lava spewing rocks or the world's
largest protected Marine area at Papa
hanau mokuakea also they have the
Polynesian culture center and one of our
Best Kept Secrets White Sands National
park that looks like you're walking on
the moon go to the underrated States
like West Virginia they have River Gorge
North Dakota has a strange Enchanted
Highway the New England states have the
best Autumn trees Oregon has the ghost
Forest Wisconsin has so many weird
Whimsical attractions my favorite one
being the house on the rock Idaho
Montana Eastern California Nevada and
Alaska have some of the best preserved
western style ghost towns freaking
Alaska Ice Caves fjords Tundras probably
some of the best nature in the entire
country American Samoa and Guam and the
Marianas are a wonderful place to see
micronesian and Polynesian culture
displays the Virgin Islands are like the
wedding honeymoon capital of our country
God there's so much and that's not even
the beginnings this is one of the
reasons why like only 56 of Americans
own passports because we kind of have a
lot to see in our own backyard and it's
no wonder considering that our backyard
is one of the most biodiverse in the
world let's discuss more of that in
now to summarize every conceivable
landscape you can think of we have the
USA is regarded as one of the most
geographically diverse Nations on Earth
and with that landscape Spectrum you can
find an infinite amount of natural
wonders but first let's look at the map
so first let's start with the lower 48
generally speaking there are seven main
physical regions the coastal plains
extending from the North Atlantic states
to the Gulf of Mexico split off by the
Appalachian Mountains from there you
have the central plains and the Great
Lakes region east of the Mississippi
River Lake Superior being the largest
lake and the largest freshwater lake by
surface area in the world third largest
by volume however only about 45 percent
of it belongs to the US meaning the
largest lake completely within the U.S
boundaries and largest lake by area in
the world fully within a single country
would actually be Lake Michigan
altogether these five lakes make up
about one-fifth of the world's above
surface fresh water west of the
Mississippi you have the Great Plains
the flattest part of the country and
home to Tornado Alley were the strongest
and most tornadoes formed than anywhere
else on Earth from there you reach the
Rocky Mountains the US's longest chain
and third longest in the world after the
Andes and the great escarpment in South
Africa the Rockies are also the source
of the longest river in the United
States not the famous Mississippi which
begins in Minnesota but by one mile
extra the Missouri River actually beats
them at 3 341 miles past the Rockies is
the Great Basin which holds the US's
desert Eco regions eight cold deserts
with alpine flora and three dry hot
shrubland Rocky Sandy deserts fun fact
the Sonoran Desert shared with Mexico is
the only place in the world where you
can find the famous Saguaro cacti you've
probably seen them in movies and TV
shows they grow here naturally from
there the other side of the Great Basin
is bordered by the coastal ranges aka
the Cascades and the Sierra Nevada keep
in mind this range also sits on the San
Andreas transformed fault line which is
part of the larger ring of fire that
means this area is the most earthquake
prone region in the country with lots of
geothermal activity such as the eruption
of Mount St Helens in the 80s from there
the state of Alaska up north actually
has the highest peak Denali as well as
all of the the top 10 highest peaks in
the country as well otherwise unlike the
Islands formed by the ring of fire the
Hawaiian Islands were not formed by a
fault line or Rift system but rather by
their own unusual isolated hot spot
where magma spurred out on its own
through plumes in the middle of the
ocean this is also known as the emperor
Hawaiian seamount chain and technically
if you consider height from the base of
the mountain to the peak Mauna Kea on
Hawaii's Big Island could be seen as the
tallest mountain in the world as over 25
000 feet or 75 percent of its total
elevation goes underwater to the
seafloor yeah with the Midwest lacks and
Landscape they make up for in Skyscape
we have the craziest atmospheric
conditions in the Great Plains people
from all over the world come to our
country just to see tornadoes it's a
thing tornado tourism oh and fun fact
many home schools and businesses in the
Midwest and Great Plains have tornado
shelters and Cellars and in schools the
kids also practice tornado drills I had
to do that as a kid in that regard some
students on the west coast have to do
like earthquake drills we know how to
handle natural disasters here we're
pretty good at it in the USA life is
like a constant economic game of
opportunistic chess moves mixed with
skill and look we know our potential and
we want more that's why we never stop
moving we hate mediocre mundane
complacency you could win it all or you
could mess up and lose it all but the
point is you could we go crazy over that
word not every country in the world
offers a could to their people we aren't
really afraid of failure or
embarrassment that stuff passes away
easily hell we even capitalize and make
money off of our embarrassment have you
seen our reality shows but the one thing
we are terrified of is regret and that's
the core of the American Spirit an
American doesn't Wonder we dream whether
it's plausible or deluded and foolish we
dream anyway that was kind of a ramble
not gonna get too far into it in any
case it's time for my triple shot
espresso break let's bring Noah in to
fill in for the rest of the segment
shall we
the fire may be gone but the heat still
lingers straight from the Great Plains
Cyclone country the state of Iowa it is
I NOAA so let's get into some statistics
first shall we it is already well known
that today the USA has the largest
economy by nominal GDP out of Any Nation
and the second largest purchasing power
parity after China the dollar is the
most widely used currency in
international transactions and is the
world's Reserve currency used by many
other countries as an official in de
facto currency we are the world's
largest importer and second largest
exporter after China out of the world's
500 largest companies over 120 are
headquartered in the USA we alone have
about 40 percent of the world's
billionaires and 30 percent of the
world's millionaires NASDAQ and New York
Stock Exchange are the largest stock
exchanges in the world by market
capitalization and trade volume some of
our most profitable exports include
petroleum products Electronics Machinery
Aerospace and defense equipment
including passenger vehicles medical and
scientific equipment we have the top
most profitable companies and largest
commercial brands on Earth that are
world renowned such as Apple Google
Amazon Microsoft and Tesla we even
invented the concept of venture capital
it's not enough for us Americans to just
profit we have to potentially profit our
franchises have become widely globalized
and some of the most remote places on
Earth you can find either a McDonald's
or KFC and even the countries that
either hate or restrict opening up an
American franchise will often rip them
off and capitalize off the idea whether
or not International lawsuit ensues or
not is another question the point is
they know the idea Works in addition to
entrepreneurship Innovation creativity
and invention has been a deep rooted
part of our history we're even the first
country to have an electronic grid it
provided to Citizens as a utility in
1882. the Wright brothers invented the
first sustained and controlled airplane
in 1903 which pioneered and
revolutionalized the air travel industry
we love getting the world involved in
our Commerce this is in large part
thanks to our free marketing
capitalistic economic model in which
Market is run by the consumers and
basically thanks to our loose marketing
laws almost anything within the minimum
of public decency can be advertised we
go so far as advertise things like
medicine colleges and yes even the
famous attorney settlement claim
Billboards and Cheez-It commercials are
an American staple did you get hit by a
car did you get muscle feel
mesothemiomia will call right now
because you might be entitled to
financial compensation you gotta love
those commercials in any case some
people like to vacation in our nature
zones like our favorite animal
correspondent you know what this time I
believe it's just Caleb take it away hi
Goss sorry you know I've been carry
Harlow on this channel for a while but
as we reach the Home Country it's time
to be real
and this is the real me
you couldn't tell before because I was
wearing a hat and a disguise just like
Noah also hailing from the great state
of Iowa it is I the American Caleb Seton
so the USA is classified as one of the
top 10 mega diverse Nations on Earth
over 600 species of reptiles and
amphibians more than 800 species of
birds over 430 species of mammals the
largest mammal within our country being
the North American Bison today we have
63 national parks 13 of which are UNESCO
world heritage sites including the
world's first national park and probably
our most famous One Yellowstone the
swampy parts of the Deep South is the
reptile Haven you have alligators and
turtles lurking everywhere there are
even crossing signs with gators on them
in the Rockies we have black and brown
bears Bobcats and mountain lions from
that time we saw a bear and what was
that oh my gosh let me tell you this
story so Paul and I went on a camping
trip up near Mammoth California one of
the stupidest things we've ever done
because we were like just warming up
around the fire and I look behind Paul
it's a freaking bear like 15 feet away
from you we found a bear are you kidding
me that's a freaking bear we almost died
in the Alaskan North you can find
Grizzlies and polar bears as well as
narwhals and walruses in the deserts we
have coyotes javelinas desert tortoises
and tarantulas all along the west coast
you have Harbor and elephant seals giant
humbled squids porpoises dolphins and
whales our Tropical Islands are home to
some of the most amazing endemic bird
and fish species such as the Hawaiian
Honey creeper and the nae nae and the
state fish the humuhumunukunuku did I do
that right oh my God and that of course
brings us to our national animal the
bald eagle Majestic powerful and Swift
this Eagle is found usually by large
bodies of water as they prefer fish they
build the largest nests out of any bird
on earth and yes it is true All American
citizens whether born or naturalized or
able to summon one at their will in
times of emergency
oh I should salute it and speaking of
emergencies I have to get back to my
wife Jillian because I just had a second
baby say hi to Eden Ray she enjoys
making bubbles out of her mouth cheers
guys thank you Caleb actually fun fact
the whole reason I got involved with
geography now originally was because I
met barbs at Caleb's wedding and it's
anything great since then how about that
enough on that let's discuss the food
first let's start off with the American
classic breakfast you've seen it
pancakes bacon sausage eggs and don't
forget those hash browns however most
Americans will eat another iconic
American invention cereal that's right
we invented the fastest breakfast on
Earth you just add milk and done
otherwise we have some very iconic
Regional Cuisines for one let's bring it
to the Native American side such dishes
that are shared amongst numerous tribes
in lower 48 include things like fry
bread bison jerky Three Sisters too
wojapi pemmican wild rice whereas for
the Inuits up north you might find whale
blubber meat Caribou slash reindeer Meat
and Sausage cloudberry or salmonberry
jams smoked Alaskan Salmons king crab
legs and a goo duck their desserts
whereas on the islands like Hawaii and
Samoa you'll find many dishes baked in
their own versions of the Earth Oven POI
or mashed purple tarot paste and Kakui
nut meat is the Staple in many dishes
they specialize in numerous garnished
seafood dishes like ahiyahi and Pacific
Lobster in the immigrants it's like the
Filipinos Portuguese and Japanese even
have Incorporated their own Fusion to
modern day Hawaiian Cuisine things like
loco moco spam Musubi and pokeballs then
we get to Soul Food which you've
probably heard of Fried Chicken and
Waffles fried okra macaroni and cheese
collard greens ham hocks and speaking of
the South our best kept secret Cajun
food imagine if you will a French
cuisine was forced to use ingredients
from the swamp and it actually worked
almost every American grocery store has
some kind of Cajun or Creole seasoning
my favorite Chef gone mad things like
gumbo jambalaya Crawfish Boil pralines
Boudin Beignets alligator and andouille
sausage New England has their own
cuisine as well things like lobster
rolls lobster bisque clam chowder and
you can't forget Maryland Blue Crab and
crab cakes they also have Tex-Mex
Cuisine which typically has heavier
ingredients and uses more flour
tortillas instead of corn enchiladas
fajitas quesadillas and also we have so
many different Regional barbecue Styles
and Barb's favorite Kansas City style
ribs love it so so many places have
their own style of pizzas and hot dogs
the biggest competitors are Chicago deep
dish and New York thin crust Americans
are also known for their sweet pies most
notably apple pie banana cream lemon
meringue key lime pie pecan pie and
speaking of pie is one of our favorites
is pumpkin served on Thanksgiving and
finally our most iconic national dish
the burger which has so many Regional
Specialties America will be nothing
without the burger well that's it for me
and until we meet again stay tuned and
stay ready
thank you Noah quick side note in
regards to the food stuff yes we have a
tipping culture at sit down restaurants
not fast food chains typically rates are
15 to 20 and it's not that hard to
calculate you just take the price that
you owe move the decimal place one spot
and then divide that by two and then add
that half to the move decimal number
that you originally priced yourself that
you owe simple and yes we eat while
walking like I said we value our time we
want things now and see that's America
every ethnic group has a story on how
they got here and everyone has their own
thing yet at the end of the day we're
all on the same journey of figuring out
how we ended up sitting in our cars
eating Taco Bell in a Walmart parking
lot contemplating life choices at 3am
we've all been there anyway that's a
Charming way to introduce my people to
the world let's jump into the
demographics
oh
I think all Americans they all want the
same thing live a good life they just
want different versions of that it's a
constant wild Chase and the hunt for the
next big thing we may all come from
different backgrounds but we've got each
other's backs that and we can all go to
McDonald's at 5am opinionated it may be
a little crazy but in a good way bald
eagles flying through the air although
those majority live in Canada now
Americans are the only people on Earth
who will wear sunglasses after the sun
is set so watch it you gotta you gotta
watch top gun Maverick it's all about
the Mavericks bro where we love
Adventure we love unpredictability As
Americans because the craziest stories
come out of the United States of America
whether it be a woman who got bit in the
Hand by a bear for punching it for the
generations of families that like the
same team
knowing that you are a mixture of a
plethora of stories histories and
cultures there is someone who thinks an
alligator is adorable
um and makes questionable decisions
during a hurricane so there's the ideal
and then there's the reality here in
Washington DC we don't even have full
representation of Congress we don't even
have Senators not all of us talk in a
country accent the irony and like how
did we all get here I ponder that a lot
is
being able to just go drive in any
direction one of the most American
things is going on a road trip and
driving for hours without a second
thought what it means to be an Alaskan
is to live wild and floor just being
able to sleep when it's light 24 out be
awake when it's dark out gotta love that
Midnight Sun I believe an American is
someone who Embraces diversity and use
it to pursue life liberty and happiness
so for me in America there's someone who
values and respects American ideals and
freedoms but the land of the free the
home of the brave honestly but America
is nothing without New York it's all
Happening Here absurdly stubborn in your
beliefs the end of the day you're still
gonna all be friends you're gonna go out
and get drinks with each other we are
the masters of making fun of each other
hungry like after midnight IHOP and
Denny's are always there for you for me
it's the house of waffles it isn't just
a waffle house it's a waffle home the
batter up we get for calling football
soccer this is America an American to me
is someone who likes to have a good time
and someone that likes free refills it's
someone that likes very large portions
at a restaurant you can use your EBT
card at fast food places and wear sweats
pretty much anywhere you are an American
you can be anything and can turn any
conversation into a competition there's
no monolithic Viewpoint or perspective
on what makes an American American
really you get the whole Melting Pot
that's what America is
so what is an American this is a
question I've pondered about for a long
time when I was writing this script from
a young age we are taught the value of
individualism you are special you are
unique there is no one like you in the
world and in that regard we are also
taught that it's good that we're
different because then everyone has
something unique and special to add if
we're all the same then there wouldn't
really be much to add or learn or grow
from it's the diversity that empowers us
we look at the world around us and see
that they already know our songs and
watch our TV shows and movies oftentimes
they imitate things that we started and
put their own spin on it we also
regularly noticed that on the news
people from all over the world fight to
immigrate here they seek refuge and
Asylum it seems like they really want to
join this country badly so in a sense
taking all of that into account not
trying to sound boastful but because of
that being an American citizen is kind
of like it sometimes feels like being
part of some kind of weird elite club
that a bunch of people want to join or
at the very least give attention to and
we love attention it's practically our
currency it doesn't matter if it's good
or bad the moment you give us your eyes
and ears we win it feeds us there's
nothing we hate more than than just
being part of the crowd every American
wants to find something about themselves
that makes them stick out this is why we
obsess so much about things like labels
and race it's one of the easiest ways to
forge an identity we take DNA tests
because at the end of the day we all
know that unless we're indigenous we
aren't native to this continent we all
come from somewhere else and sometimes
we're curious we want to know who we are
doesn't everybody this may sound kind of
shallow on the surface but you kind of
have to understand like all the nations
of the Americas we're kind of like the
Lost Children of the world we never came
from royalty or nobility no ancient
legacies to honor so in a way we don't
really have much to lose we have to
build our own empires of course every
American has a different story and not
everyone will agree to this very
sentiment but at the very base that's
kind of what I guess it kind of somewhat
feels like to be American
yeah oh that was a speech in any case
let's talk about the ethnic makeup of
the USA shall we motion graphic time
first of all the United States has about
340 million people and is the third most
populous nation on Earth after China and
India and has the highest immigration
out of any country in the world and
every nation on Earth has some kind of
community or diaspora represented within
it the first and country's largest
demographic being the white non-hispanic
group at about 60 percent which mostly
contains Caucasian Americans typically
with European Origins from there the
second largest community are Hispanic
and Latino Americans making up about 19
of the population keep in mind the
Latino and Hispanic communities are also
incredibly diverse within themselves and
some may or may not also identify with
either white or black communities
depending on where they feel on the
racial scale from there the black
community makes up the third largest
demographic at somewhere around 13 of
the population after that Asians and
Pacific Islanders make up about seven
percent of the population the largest
communities being Chinese Filipinos
Indians Vietnamese Koreans and Japanese
and the remaining one percent is mostly
made up of Native American or home
Hawaiian slash Alaskan natives also keep
in mind some of these people listed here
also register under two or more races or
some other race so in that regard all
these lines could be blurred and have
asterisks applied to them depending on
what the individual claims on their
document we use the US dollar as our
currency we use the types A and B plug
outlets and we drive on the right side
of the road and just like we explained
in the UK episode the USA is one of the
few countries that does not use the
metric system our units of measurements
are Miles feet inches Acres Fahrenheit
pounds tons ounces pints quartz and our
favorite unit of measurement the big fat
gallon this is a gallon we actually
measure our gas in these units too so
yeah also keep in mind sometimes we
don't even care we'll just make up our
own units of measurement when we're too
lazy we literally measure things like
fried chicken and popcorn in buckets and
ice cream in tubs now going back to the
ethnic makeup thing it's important to
note that most multi-generational
Americans today have a degree of racial
and genetic admixture most white
Americans today are descendants of
immigrants that arrive through Ellis
Island not British Colonials coming from
countries like Germany Ireland Italy and
over time many of the whites kind of
just mixed and created new American
whites it's not uncommon for them to
have some Native American blood as well
and then it gets a little weird because
some people are like oh yeah my great
grandma was 184th Cherokee new I'm
special and the same even applies to our
black population according to a study
published in the American Journal of
human genetics the average black person
in the USA has about 24 European
ancestry but it varies by the individual
we'll talk more about the racial story
of the USA in a bit but first language
technically the US has never declared an
official language however the de facto
national language and language of use
for all Administration and documents is
English or at least American English 28
states have voted to make English the
official state language of their state
three states have de facto bilingual
policies they are Maine and Louisiana
for French and New Mexico for Spanish
and oh my goodness Cajun French sounds
so cool it's like lazy swamp French
as for Hawaiian and well actually I
figured maybe we should let a real
Hawaiian explain take it away Mr kamaka
did you know that Hawaii is the only
official state where English and
Hawaiian serves as co-equal languages in
the administration sometimes you can
even hear Hawaiian being spoken in
legislature meetings since the 80s
there's been a huge Hawaiian language
Revival because of the creation of
Hawaiian emerging schools we have
schools for preschool all the way to
12th graders and everything is done in
Hawaiian about half a century ago
Hawaiian language was at the brink of
Extinction with only 2 000 native
speakers today in 2023 I'm proud to say
there's over 30 000 people speaking our
native tongue thank you kamaka follow
him on his social medias and his
websites he's an awesome guy doing great
things for Hawaii otherwise three of the
territories also have official bilingual
status along with English for their
native languages Spanish for Puerto Rico
chamoro for Guam and Samoan for American
Samoa and the Northern Mariana Islands
is the only officially trilingual entity
with chamoro and Carolinian as the
official languages alongside with
English however as a whole bilingualism
has been growing fast in the U.S mostly
with Spanish and French as our most
commonly taught languages in schools in
the 80s our populace was only about 11
bilingual today however that number has
more than doubled as the Census Bureau
estimates that somewhere around one in
five people in the US ages five and up
uses another language at home and one in
four Americans are proficient enough to
Converse in another language in any case
religion in the USA regardless of level
of devotion somewhere around 70 maybe
upwards to 75 claim to be affiliated
with some kind of Christian denomination
the largest ones being Protestant
followed by Catholic and
non-denominational otherwise the next
largest religious groups are Jews and
Buddhists at somewhere around two
percent each and then Muslims at around
one percent for the rest of the country
it's kind of like a complicated topic
because they tend to fall into a more
agnostic approach in which they might
claim to be spiritual but not religious
so going back to the topic how did all
the Races end up here well to start off
of course the originals were the Native
Americans in a nutshell they come from
numerous tribes that each have their own
customs and traditions there are over
570 recognized ones and then of American
story of this country is an acknowledged
sad one riddled in government mandated
relocations mass killings such as the
one at the Battle of Wounded Knee and
broken treaties all over the place in
regard to that though there's also a
beautiful side to their story with pride
and courage and tribes like the Navajo
and Hopi that were honored for their
code talker program in World War II and
today some tribes like the Cherokee and
Osage are starting to revive their
languages to more modern usage with
things like teaching it in schools
putting their tribal scripts on street
signs and businesses and windows and
documents and so on I've said this
before every American needs to visit a
tribal reservation at least once and
spend time learning about them after
that White's from England started coming
in from the late 1500s to the early
1600s basically English colonialism
after that the Atlantic slave trade from
West Africa began with Portugal and
eventually made its way to the United
States which is where most of our black
population is derived from a more
contemporary term that some of them
might use as or American descendant
of Slavery to distinguish themselves
from blacks that immigrated from the
Caribbean or Africa keep in mind the
United States only took in about four
percent of the enslaved peoples from the
Atlantic slave trade most of them either
went to Brazil ill or the Caribbean when
it was under the British eventually the
Civil War and Emancipation Proclamation
happened from there it was still a
struggle with a tense time riddled with
apartheid laws and customs even in the
north where they fought against slavery
there was still racism there were Jim
Crow laws the bombing of Tulsa the
Rosewood incident redlining finally in
the 60s the Civil Rights Movement
occurred the 60s was kind of like the
big moment it is said that slavery and
the treatment of Native Americans is the
darkest chapter of American History our
biggest shame we don't hide from it we
acknowledge it we teach it in our
schools it's like what the Nazi thing is
that Germany or the Imperial thing is to
Japan for what it's worth the story of
Black America is one with so many
chapters but if you look at how the
story unfolds over the centuries there
is a beauty to it our country could not
be what it is with so many amazing
individuals that have revolutionized not
just our country but made shock waves
throughout the whole world look I'm not
trying to speak on behalf of the black
experience because I'm not black I mean
I did that DNA test and it said North
African but I'm not claiming anything
unless you all approve and if you do
I'll bring ribs and Henny to the cookout
hey hey but for what it's worth if you
must take anything away from this I
think most of Americans will agree that
the story of America is nothing without
the story of the black population in any
case from there we move on to the other
major communities the Chinese were the
first Asians to arrive as rail line
workers in the mid-1800s Filipinos
started coming in after the colonial
years then the Koreans and Vietnamese so
the Korean War and the Vietnam War for
the Latino Community it's interesting
some isolated communities of Mexicans
and Spanish people were already living
in certain parts of the West after lands
were acquired from the Mexican-American
War however their populations weren't
really high until large migration waves
came in in the 20th century from there
Latin Americans from all over started
building communities Los Angeles has the
largest Salvadoran in Guatemalan
communities Miami has Cubans Venezuelans
Colombians Puerto Ricans and Dominicans
Love New York for some reason even
though the climate is nothing like their
perfect beautiful Tropical Islands I
don't get that whole thing but whatever
you guys do you and of course when
there's Latinos You'll Always Find
Mexicans somehow in the mix there's a
lot of other groups and stories behind
their origins of coming here but we just
don't have time this video is already
getting long enough if you are from a
community that I didn't mention please
feel free to write about it in the
comments and teach us but otherwise we
have to move on in any case one thing
you'll notice is that our country tries
really really hard to make sure every
race has some kind of representation in
Media or retail for example major store
chains that sell Cosmetics usually have
to provide a line that comes in all
shades of the skin spectrum and most of
them will have what they sometimes call
ethnic hair or textured hair or coily
hair sections and fun fact art and I
actually shop in this part of the store
because uh why art Murray's pomade it's
the only thing that seems to work on her
hair because her hair is thick we always
use it so yeah we use this all the time
this is a true American classic yeah not
a sponsorship which is not a sponsorship
we just really like this stuff although
it could be a sponsorship first
non-black people to be a sponsored by
Murray you could use a ginger you would
be you would be considered the face of
diversity for them since the 70s most of
our TV shows and cartoons have had
unspoken diversity quotas in which every
cast will usually have some minority
character either main reoccurring or
guest character our toy sections at
stores usually contain dolls and action
figures that come in all Races nothing
more iconic to this sentiment than the
famous collectible American Girl doll
then you have the really obvious
attempts like Captain Planet Magic
School Bus and that puppet show that
tried too hard like even if it comes off
a little forced and pandering or cringy
we try our best and usually we mean well
in any case that was such a long-winded
explanation of American social dynamics
one person who also means well and is
quite Dynamic would be art so let's
switch up the subject and talk about the
sports of the USA
ah it is all right Artemis hailing from
the great state of Washington so let's
get started for one let's all go way
back to the beginning tribes like the
Choctaw Chickasaw and the tribe Creek
played chunky which involved rolling a
disc and throwing a spear some of the
Algonquin tribes played some games
similar to soccer called pasakawa kuhog
which could have had up to 500 people
playing at the same time and yes since
this is the USA episode I'm gonna just
call it soccer this time soccer and the
most famous one that survives to this
day and is actually the oldest organized
Sports in North America lacrosse fast
forward to today and numerous Sports
have been invented in our country we
love our Sports so much that we even
created a sport that cheers on other
sports it's called cheerleading ever
heard of it oh and one thing almost all
schools in the USA have a mascot which
is usually a costume character to help
cheer on the team and you know you had a
real American Experience if your school
had to change its mascot due to outdated
racist undertones oh yeah my school did
that and then we get the big three
baseball basketball and American
football although some might say
baseball was inspired by the game
rounders from England the first official
formalized version of baseball was
created in New York City in 1845 and has
become America's pastime Sport and
basketball was created in Massachusetts
by a Canadian yeah that's true but if
you wanted to make it a Canadian sport
he would have stayed in Canada
we love you Canada though yeah we love
you anyway people all over the world
know our most famous player of all time
Michael Jordan who is a
multi-billionaire and never has to worry
about life ever again are you serious
there you wrote that he set for life
yeah let's become billionaires then we
get to American football we just call it
football sometimes called Gridiron it's
our most popular sport it was basically
like a sport inspired from rules and
techniques found in rugby and soccer
invented by Walter Camp in the 1870s and
first played by four universities many
outside the U.S and Canada might not
quite get the sport so if you have to
summarize it it's kind of like if you
mixed war and speed chess two teams 11
players they have to get to the inside
okay let me just describe football
really quick okay the chunky fat guys
are the right Paul the chunky and fat
the linemen on the front and the
quarterback is trying to get the ball to
whoever that can score touchdown that's
basically it and it is a big deal here
like a really big deal the Super Bowl
today the USA is the most successful
Nation at the Olympics holding nearly 3
000 medals about 1200 of which are gold
we even have the most decorated Olympic
athlete of all time swimmer Michael
Phelps we have hosted the Olympics eight
times and soon the ninth is going to be
here in Los Angeles in 2028. we will
also host the 2026 FIFA World Cup and
Los Angeles will be a host city as well
otherwise we have to bring up a bunch of
other Fringe Sports such as running a
reindeer and iditary God in Alaska
monster truck rallies freestyle
Motocross and of course one of our
favorite American pastimes entertainment
wrestling things like WWF and WWE are
Staples of our American diet there is
nothing more American than WrestleMania
all the superstars and cheesy guest
celebrities battle it out and destroy
each other we'll destroy each other do
they really I mean come on it's so rude
it's so real right those are not actors
for sure and there are loads of
independent lower tier entertainment
wrestling leagues in which sometimes get
like really weird with like a chicken
fights a wizard or a pizza chef and a
Green Goblin or a Pop-Tart and a mermaid
that sounds like a nightmare actually
and that's it for me I'm gonna get out
of here you know guys I am so proud to
be an American I hope you guys enjoyed
the episode and I love you all thank you
that was a great way to end it man shut
up Paul
thank you art I know what is the easiest
way to make friends with an American
well you have to master the art of the
American Interruption let me explain in
other countries it's considered rude to
listen in on other people's
conversations let alone interrupt them
while they're talking but here in the
USA it's a social art form in a way
unless we are quietly Whispering
something we kind of don't mind if you
hear us and if you hear us talking about
something you really understand well and
you really feel like you contribute
something to the conversation then you
are allowed to subtly budge your way
into the conversation for example okay
do you remember the scare Factor episode
where they made him bungee jump and they
almost hit them yeah I remember
so we're gonna
eat Blended up the centipede
oh my God we're American Best Friends
keep in mind this can go both ways for
shared interests and shared hatreds yo
did you hear that new Blake album no
he's not as good as he used to be no are
you 2017
no you just be crying do you guys
remember that that music video with the
girl in like the orange dress like well
yeah
we're American best friends and look to
my fellow Americans I know some of you
guys have been through some rough
patches in the way how you see
yourselves in our country but let me
just remind you a few things our country
has gone through a lot of crazy things a
lot of shameful things in the past but
we also have a lot of glory and a lot of
accomplishments it's your country just
as much as it is mine and you're my
family and we get to share in the glory
of this country 21 elements on the
periodic table were discovered or
co-discovered by us and five of them are
named after places in our country we
absolutely lead the world in space
exploration we're the only people that
have landed on the moon and we did it
six times and played golf on it we sent
the first satellite images of other
planets like Jupiter Saturn and even
Pluto and we were the first to land a
Rover on Mars we pioneered the Genome
Project and pioneered so many medical
advancements we donate more money for
charity and aid for people in need
across the world than all the other
countries combined we have the number
one film industry in the world we
invented so many things I'm not even
gonna get into it and name them all but
one of them being personal computers and
the internet and YouTube which you would
need to watch this video and that's just
a small fraction of the Heritage that
your nation gets to claim and you and I
are a part of it so buck up kiddo no
matter how much we fight we're still
family in the end and we're all kind of
pretty awesome and I guess that's who we
are as Americans we're just the Lost
Children of the world that made our own
thing and that's our heritage and to
talk more about how that Heritage is
subdivided regionally here's Hannah with
the culture segment
hello everyone we are at the America
episode and you know I have to start it
out with a big Roll Tide because you
know I am from Alabama Miami and the
baby actually the baby's not from
Alabama it's from California oh yeah
you're gonna have a California baby oh
no so when I when I say American culture
lots of things probably pop into your
head surfing and skateboarding ketchup
Branch dressing pickup trucks Cowboys
pop and locking shopping scooters
shopping scooters yellow school buses
drinks with eyes 64 ounce cups red Solo
cups gray cans of cheese root beer to go
bag carpet floors wearing shoes indoors
and so on these are all fun and true to
some extent but there's a deeper story
behind our people for one culture in the
USA is typically divided into five main
regions within the lower 48 and micro
regions within them so let's start off
northeasterners are hustling business
folk it is home to the Bosch wash
Corridor the largest megalopolis in the
world in terms of economic output with
about one-sixth of the entire country's
population people here live in or have
close access to large Metropolitan
centers which most likely means they are
acquainted with a wide range of ideas
opportunities Office Buildings and The
Daily Grind of Modern Life funny enough
Pennsylvania is also home to the largest
on Amish community that chooses to avoid
modern technology the Midwest or the
Great Lakes region is the industrial and
Manufacturing belt the lakes and rivers
help them prosper and trade historically
Detroit is known for its car industry
hence the nickname Motown or Motor City
Chicago processes food and Machinery
Wisconsin is the dairy capital in fact
two of the top three best hospitals in
the country and in the world are here
overall the Midwest is good at making
things and they are famous for having
some of the funniest accents and nicest
people in the country
then we get to the Great Plains and the
frontier this is the Bread Basket and
mountains of the nation basically this
is the resource epicenter after these
lands were acquired the U.S government
encouraged Westward Expansion to the
citizens by implementing the Homestead
Act in 1862. so basically this became
the wild west if you've seen The Classy
kitchy Americana western films this area
also has the most Native American
reservations as well be respectful to
the tribes if you ever enter the land as
they have the their own autonomous set
of rules that may differ from the state
they are in Colorado is known for having
the healthiest people in the country
Wyoming is one of the few places where
you can still see authentic cowboys and
cowgirls Utah and Idaho have the
heaviest concentration of the Mormon
Community Arizona and New Mexico have a
desert culture they know how to handle
heat and thrive in it then there's the
West Coast California Nevada Oregon and
Washington basically two things dominate
this region entertainment which is
literally what we're doing right now on
the west coast and Tech Innovation
everyone knows Los Angeles is the
entertainment capital of the world home
to Hollywood where the largest and
busiest Studios and production
facilities in the world operate up north
you start getting Tech hubs like Silicon
Valley and Seattle the startup and
Innovation centers with companies like
Microsoft Apple Google Facebook Twitter
and so on everyone knows Vegas in Nevada
the largest casino State however not
everything is neon lights and Robotics
Oregon is where the whole Lumber
industry pretty much started and today
some of the best Alpine forests are
found here so you find more naturey
people out in those parts and finally we
reach the South my home region the
region everyone in the US is moving to
right now this is probably the most
well-known distinct region of the USA
most people whether religious or not
have had some kind of affiliation with
the church growing up and will find
themselves praying even if they are on a
reality show intended to Showcase their
drunken sexual escapades and that's also
because everyone knows the south is the
best party place in the country well
tangent because a lot of our colleges
have the best football teams reasons to
celebrate Louisiana is our best kept
secret they have the unique Cajun and
creole culture that dominates everything
there's nothing like Mardi Gras on
Bourbon Street but if you want the
original and real Mardi Gras you have to
go to Mobile Alabama and as much as I
hate to admit it the entire State of
Florida is kind of a Non-Stop party even
hurricanes don't stop them everyone
knows the strangest and crazy easiest
things happen in Florida I think it's
because it's so hot and humid there
South Florida is home to Miami which is
basically North Cuba it has a unique
Caribbean culture literally you need to
speak Spanish the Mississippi Delta is
where so many famous people like Elvis
Presley and Oprah were born you have the
Appalachian or Piedmont South where
banjo and bluegrass music began and
where some of the best moonshine is made
along the coasts of North and South
Carolina in Georgia you have the unique
Gola Community descendants of the freed
slaves that inhabit the Barrier Islands
they are known for speaking their own
unique Creole that has West African
influences musical performances and
sweet grass woven craft then of course
we get to Texas the big guy let's just
say Texas is not just a cowboy state
it's evolving into a major modern tech
and entrepreneur Hub they're tough
they're proud and they love their state
in Alaska you can actually find bushed
communities that live mostly Off the
Grid and survive in the elements and
prefer bartering instead of using money
native Hawaiians invented surfing and
they were ocean navigation experts
traversing the entire Pacific on canoes
micronesians in Guam and the Marianas
also have their distinct Chamorro
culture and they live by the concepts of
emote and manyina American Samoans are
obviously the cousins of the Samoans
they have their unique matai and
chiefdom systems of ruling themselves
and the far as Samoa or Samoan way of
life the Virgin Islands is like a mini
Jamaica they have their own Creole
English quelbe or scratch bands amazing
seafood and the unique malbe drink made
of tree bark Puerto Ricans are kind of
like the US's favorite Latinos politics
aside they have created so many cultural
impacts that have crept onto the
mainland especially in places like New
York and Florida home of bomba
reggaetones everyone knows Robert
Clemente Ricky Martin JLo Daddy Yankee
and Luis Fonzie so that's the quick
condensed overview of the US's Regional
cultures there is so much more we could
have mentioned but it would take forever
if you are from a region of the USA with
a distinct cultural trait we miss write
it in the comments and teach us I guess
with all of that we go back to the crazy
Florida region because now it is Florida
band Keys time to talk to us about the
music take it away crazy Florida man
did it that's the America episode
okay all right we're in Florida yeah
made it to Florida yeah there's even a
fight going on outside so that's how you
know it's real Florida hey what's up
everybody what's up name Keith thanks
for having me on the show Paul I'm not
trying to sound cocky or anything like
that every other country on the face of
the Earth deserves its own Spotlight
with all that being said we're the
number one music Market in the entire
world we export more music and
entertainment to the rest of the world
than any other country ever let but
first let's take it back way back to the
indigenous people of the United States
Native Americans are known for their
pow-wow events of you know War drums and
dancing and singing and all kinds of
really great traditional things along
with the Hawaiians who have the luau's
and it's pretty amazing too and they got
the fire spinning and the Inuits have
their traditional throat singing that
they perform
so the largest Native American powwow
event in the United States is called the
Gathering of the Nations and you can go
check out this event in Albuquerque New
Mexico and it's performed every April
and I highly recommend you guys go and
check it out in Hawaii you have also the
Mary Monarch Festival it's like the most
Hawaiian thing you can possibly see with
your own two eyes unless if you have one
eye then you it's the most amazing thing
with your one eye now let's fast forward
American Music really started to gain
its International recognition in the
1800s with things like Vaudeville and
acapellas like the fist Jubilee singers
who broke barriers and received the
national medal of Arts prior to the 20th
century American Music was either
classical parlor music slash Saloon
music all Americans know such songs Like
Home on the Range and Oh Susanna by
Stephen Foster and then something crazy
happened Jess oh my God Jazz there is
nothing more American than jazz music a
very highly intellectual form of music
jazz basically changed the entire world
in or helped shape today's modern music
I mean you can take you know the chord
structures like complex chord structures
I mean songs like Giant Steps you
literally have every other beat where it
changes like a chord to odd time
signatures I mean take five was like a
very popular Jazz standard that was in
by this record uh kind of Blue by Miles
Davis Miles Davis set the standard of
how good jazz can sound in my opinion
but let's be real I mean you also had
John Coltrane in his band I mean even at
points I mean Bill Evans was on his
record today's music wouldn't be
anything without Jazz I mean I also want
to highlight blues music just as much as
Jazz because without Blues as well we
wouldn't have had the era of rock and
roll people like Howlin Wolf BB King
Stevie Ray Vaughan Gary Clark Jr you
know without Blues we would have never
gotten into eventually having Elvis
Presley to the Beyond into the Beatles
and Led Zeppelin and everybody's
favorite bands at one point it all kind
of stems from the blues we can't leave
out what was going on in New York City
with hip-hop culture so basically it all
started with a guy named DJ Cool hurt it
took off from there you have Detroit for
Motown and how can we forget about
Nashville Nashville the main thing that
people see is country music but you can
just as much go to Indie show and go
check out some indie hipster band or go
check out a metal band Believe It or Not
Nashville has the highest musicians per
capita in the entire world Texas was the
birthplace of Tejano every Mexican
American knows uh Selena and probably
has some sort of private room in their
closet uh with a shrine dedicated to
Selena with all that being said so many
of our American artists have gained
International recognition and fan base
you can be in the middle of the
Himalayas going Camelback and come upon
a salt mine and some dude is gonna be
all like dude have you ever checked out
the Thriller record for Michael Jackson
and then he's gonna you're gonna be like
yeah who doesn't know Michael Jackson
yeah bro oh there's a thriller I'm sure
this part is gonna get flagged and taken
down anyways I love all of you thanks so
much for uh having me on the America
episode my name's Keith good job Keith
yes America
thank you Keith the real original
Florida man okay so yeah I'm not even
gonna try and end this segment with
something witty this episode is already
the longest we've ever had on the
channel so let's just jump into the
final segment shall we the friend zone
when it comes to our diplomacy and
foreign policy the USA is quite the
extrovert and even if there's a
diplomatic strain or limited interaction
in one area of the world we still have
some degree of connection thanks to our
incredibly diverse population in
diaspora communities I literally found
people from places like South Sudan the
Solomon Islands and even our rarest
guests carry from tuvalu here in the
United States that's how insanely
diverse and interconnected our nation is
in any case the motion graphic as a
member of numerous igos in Asia the USA
Works closely with many members and has
deep ties to them for example after
World War II and the Korean War the US
has invested heavily in Japan and South
Korea and today they are the only two
East Asian countries with visa-free
access to the U.S the Philippines is
super close to as they were once a U.S
Colony they speak English and many
American cultural traits have adopted
into Filipino Society India shares a
close relationship as they make the
second largest Asian diaspora community
in the U.S after the Chinese they have
huge bilateral trade deals and joint
military exercises they are easy to
engage with as an anglophone nation and
heads of state have met numerous times
with China it's almost always a
complicated extensive economic based
relationship and of course there's the
whole Taiwan thing basically in the 70s
former president Richard Nixon visited
and soon after the U.S China joint
communique and the six assurances were
established long story short no matter
how things get we keep doing this thing
where it's like I think I'm better than
you but I want to keep dancing with you
otherwise as a member of various North
and South American organizations the US
has very obvious and close ties to their
North and South American Neighbors in
the broadest sense they are all kind of
like new world countries that share a
similar story of being built off of
European colonialism evolving into the
vibrant new societies that they are
today the US was the first country to
recognize Brazil as a nation in 1808 and
many sociologists will say that Brazil
is kind of like the closest country
resembling the US in shared experiences
related to their demographic makeup the
only real major difference is that
Brazil was more Catholic influence
whereas the US was more Protestant
otherwise moving on to Africa the U.S
cooperates in many discussions with the
Au and ADB the African growth and
opportunity act in 2000 provides
preferential cooperation to the U.S
market for eligible African countries
such as Kenya Nigeria and South Africa
and today many African Americans do
pilgrimage trips and some even get dual
citizenship oh yeah and Liberia was like
the US's long-lost adoptive African
stepchild that we keep forgetting we
really need to pay more attention to
them and give them more love when it
comes to Europe though basically the US
has always had some kind of constant
interaction with Europe since the
Inception of our nation's Independence
France was the first country to
establish diplomatic relations with us
also thank you for giving us the Statue
of Liberty over the years Europeans from
virtually every corner of the continent
immigrated to the US and built
communities and neighborhoods after
World War II we signed the Marshall Plan
which was a huge economic Recovery Act
which eventually evolved into the
formation of NATO the only main European
relationship that has a roller coaster
of diplomatic instability typically
lands with Russia rooted in the Cold War
era conflict but this is a topic for
another time when it comes to our best
friends however typically Americans will
probably root for one of the teen major
anglophone Nations we Americans hardcore
crush on the Aussies and Kiwis I
personally feel like nothing illustrates
this more than the Irwin family we share
a history of being former British
colonies we are members of anzas the
Pacific committee and a partner in the
Pacific Islands Forum we share very
common political and cultural interests
we've almost always teamed up and had
each other's backs on numerous
International conflicts and yeah overall
we love them then we hit a little closer
to home and get to Canada and the UK
Canada is more like our obedient little
brother that stuck with Daddy Britain as
we broke away and got our own apartment
later on they saw us having so much fun
and then kind of slowly and politely
requested to leave dad's Nest
nonetheless in a technical sense Canada
has the oldest shared relationship with
us as we were both being formed at the
same time so we ultimately really get
each other and we share so much in
common in regards to culture values and
politics we both speak English much to
the Chagrin of the quebe about 75 to 85
percent of their trade goes through the
USA granted sometimes Canadians hope
they don't get too Americanized and they
try to salvage their Canadian identity
whatever that means but ultimately we
love them we marry the crap out of each
other we hire their musicians and actors
they let us film in Vancouver for super
cheap and we love how they hate it when
we call them our 51st state finally we
end up with the old man UK the US is the
Rebel Son that broke away yet after
things cooled off we totally laughed
about it and became the closest friends
all over again today the two countries
share the world's largest direct foreign
investment partnership and virtually go
hand in hand in almost every
International issue the UK is like our
connection to Europe and recently both
countries have affirmed the other as
being the country with the most
important bilateral partnership in their
foreign policy long story short the
story ends right where it began the USA
and UK will always look out for each
other alright the motion graphic is over
it's time to do this in conclusion look
personally if you're American you're my
family we don't always have to agree on
everything in fact we might not even
like each other we might even kind of
hate each other a little bit but the
point is if you're an American you're
still my family and at the end of the
day my family comes first I'll still
have your back Nobody messes with my
crazy family and if you have a green
card it's like you're kind of engaged to
my family and I can't wait for the
wedding if you're undocumented and you
call this country your home and you love
it and you work hard and you have good
character and want to be a part of the
family then I'm rooting for you to take
all the necessary steps to join the
family and for those of you saying that
we have problems yeah of course we have
problems we always had problems we
always will but look at our history when
there was a problem we didn't stick with
it grumbling and twiddling our thumbs we
openly acknowledged it we erupted a
little bit we let things get messy and
then we figured things out that's kind
of how we do things we're Americans
we're still figuring things out and
we're not even 300 years old we're just
getting started we're not done we're
never done we don't stop you're part of
a people and nation that has done
amazing things the world has never seen
before you're part of that amazingness
it's like by default you Americans are
already unique you're already amazing
you just you might not recognize it or
feel it but you are we became our own
Royals and this is our home and I love
you all
stay tuned Uruguay is coming up next
sorry you have to follow that
[Music]
foreign
