the subcommittee hearing on unidentified
anomalous phenomena or uaps will come to
order welcome everyone without objection
the chair May declare a recess at any
time additionally without objection the
following members are waived onto the
subcommittee for the purpose of
participating in today's hearing Mr
burchard of Tennessee Miss Luna Florida
Mr getza Florida Mr Burleson of Missouri
Mrs ocasio-cortez in New York and Mr
ogles of Tennessee without objections so
ordered for today's subcommittee hearing
both the chair and ranking member will
have 10 minutes for opening remarks we
may both be giving some of those minutes
to other members of our party I'm now
going to recognize myself for 10 minutes
I'm actually going to try to get out of
here in about four and then we'll give
it to some of my friends over here good
morning and welcome to the mostly
exciting the most exciting subcommittee
in Congress this week the subcommittee
on National Security of the board in
foreign affairs for discussion of
unidentified anomalous phenomenon I'd
like to thank the brave military pilots
and Personnel such as wit such as the
Witnesses on the panel today for sharing
their stories on how they've engaged
uaps which has brought attention to this
matter
curiosity and speculation from all walks
of life have generated interest in
studying what uaps are and what threats
they they may pose I will say that when
I was younger in school I read a book a
1966 book called flying saucers serious
business and for a while when I was a
little bit younger I thought it was the
most important issue out there
the lack of a transparency regarding
uaps which was one of the
themes of that book
um
in any event it's led to interest in
studying what uaps are and what threats
they pose
the lack of transparency regarding uaps
is fueled wild speculation and debate
for decades eroding public trust in the
very institutions that are meant to
serve and protect them as is evidenced
by the large number of people we have
here I also want to point out in 1966
President Gerald Ford claimed to have
seen a UFO and in 1969 in Georgia
Jimmy Carter claimed to have seen a UFO
so this has led Congress to establish
entities to examine uaps the National
Defense authorization Act of 2022
established the all-domain anomaly
resolution officer aarro to conduct or
to coordinate efforts across the
Department of Defense and other federal
agents federal agencies to detect
identify and investigate uaps however
aaro's budget remains classified
prohibiting meaningful oversight from
Congress in addition to aro's efforts
Nassau is leading an independent study
and uaps to identify how UAP data is
gathered from both civilian and
government entities that can be analyzed
to shed light on the topic however
despite these offices being established
their lives of pressing demand for
government transparency and
accountability that cannot be overlooked
and that's been a problem that's been
around for 50 years the Biden
Administration handling of the Chinese
spy balloon that violated U.S airport
space is one example how the government
is not prepared for these the Biden
administration's description of events
has shown that the government continues
not to be forthright between the Chinese
balloon being shot down in two uaps
subsequently shut down following the
event earlier this year the U.S
government spent one and a half million
dollars in taxpayer dollars on missiles
yet we have seen little Clarity from the
Biden Administration
we must demand transparency from the
Department of Defense our intelligent
community and our defense industry on
the UAP work we're going to ask some
questions about that today Congress
recognizes the subject of uaps is
multifaceted and requires a careful
data-driven approach
today we'll see Clarity from these
Witnesses testimonies I will see clarity
as to what can be done to improve
reporting for military and civilians and
remain committed to objective inquiry
Congress should work to ensure that
knowledge is not driven by fear today we
are not just obeying the existence of
uaps we are deliberating on the
principles that Define our Republic
which is a commitment to transparency
and accountability I look forward to
hearing from our Witnesses today
about ways we can improve government
efficiency and openness when it comes to
uaps I thank each of you for your
presence here today and for your
dedication to safeguarding the interest
of the American people I look forward to
your testimony and I'm going to turn it
over for two and a half or three minutes
to representative burchard from
Tennessee
thank you Mr chairman thank you all for
being here
I want to thank everybody for making
this happen today and I want to remind
everybody this is a nonpartisan issue
this has nothing to do with Party
politics I think
the cover up goes a lot deeper than that
I also want to thank my colleagues
representative Anna Paulina Luna sitting
beside me here
Jared Moskowitz
my friend across the aisle has an
incredible mind and I'm anxious to hear
his questions my buddy Eric Burleson
and it's not in my notes here but Matt
Gates if it hadn't been for Matt Gates
myself him and Luna would still be down
at Eglin Air Force Base trying to get
some answers
he's got an incredible legal mind also
uh I know I saw it in the crowd there
George Knapp my buddy Jeremy Corbell
I've
they're not Witnesses but they've
provided some statements on this subject
and I see unanimous consent to enter
those statements into the record Mr
chairman without objection also would
like to enter in I understand now that
this is unclassified and it's public
record but as we all know that's
sometimes difficult for the public to
get a hold of a report defense
intelligence reference documents
Advanced space propulsion based on
vacuum
space-time metric engineering some light
reading for some of our members without
objection thank you
um you know Mr Knapp wrote since 1969
the position our military has been that
UFOs pose no threat to National Security
and are not worth worthy of further
study I'd say that's the biggest
understatement of the decade he also
goes on to talk about the dismissive
attitude and said odds with what was
revealed in documents reports internal
memos
Mr cabrill says as he writes these words
the UFO is emerging as a major topic of
global importance
um I can state that as a fact out there
I met a fella who came in here all the
way from Denmark to be here for this
this meeting so this is huge this is
worldwide I think we we suspect what's
going on but I'd also like to thank the
members of Congress who supported our
efforts to make this hearing happen some
have even confided to me that they've
had UFO sightings of Their Own
those members of course some of them
wish to remain anonymous and I'll keep
it that way but also finally I'd like to
thank these three Brave Witnesses here
they took an oath they took a note to
uphold the Constitution United States
and Dad government they're doing it and
we owe them a debt of gratitude
[Applause]
y'all quit clapping you're cutting in on
my time
these folks they've got nothing to gain
from this and I think you're going to
find out that they've endured quite a
few slings and arrows we need to
remember them in our prayers and their
families and I'm thankful them for their
honest testimonies they have done
interviews and appeared in documentaries
like accidental truth to get their
stories out there to and and now they
are all here to testify under oath for
Congress
I it's been so difficult to get here
today I've said you know in the Baptist
Church we'd say that the devil's in our
way and um the devil has been in our way
through this thing we've we've run into
roadblocks from members from the
intelligence Community the Pentagon our
proposed legislation to go in the FAA
reauthorization that just said if uh
if an airline pilot has a siding that
when he makes that report to the FAA
that it would come to Congress but I was
told that the intelligence community did
not like that and the bill was the
amendment was not even heard in
committee
I think it's time for this country to
take back our country we need to tell
the folks at the Pentagon they work for
us that government we don't work for
them
and that's exactly the point this is an
issue of government transparency we
can't trust a government that does not
trust its people we're not bringing
Little Green Men or flying saucers into
the hearing sorry to disappoint about
half y'all
we're just going to get to the facts
we're going to uncover the cover-up and
I hope this is just the beginning of
many more hearings and more people
coming forward about this and I yield
back the remainder of my time um I think
is it to representative Luna Mr chairman
yeah we'll we'll call him Ms Luna for
her statement
their circumstances surrounding uaps has
captivated the intention of the American
people for decades ingrained in even the
minds of our nation's leaders from Jimmy
Carter to Barack Obama Hillary Clinton
to Donald Trump Marco Rubio to Chuck
Schumer John Radcliffe to National
Security Council officials yet from
Roswell New Mexico to the coast of
Jacksonville Florida the sightings of
uaps have rarely been explained by the
people who have first-hand accounts of
these situations this is largely due to
the lack of transparency by our own
government and the failure of our
elected leaders to make good on their
promises to release explanations and
footage and mountains of over classified
documents that continue to be hidden
from the American people
this isn't just how I feel in fact the
American people largely believe that the
government has actively covered up the
truth about uaps one poll in particular
found that 68 percent of Americans
believe that the government is hiding
information about uaps and not being
honest about what we know about them and
from my personal experience I believe
the same thing
another poll found that nearly half
Americans believe that the federal
government is doing a very bad or
somewhat bad job of dealing with reports
of UFO sightings as representative
burchett just referenced on the fa bill
that just went through you can tell that
that's exactly happening considering the
thousands of testimonies and videos
taken on people's phones and
eyewitnesses accounts made by credible
Witnesses such as doctors Pilots
scientists and active duty service
members is unacceptable to continue to
Gaslight Americans into thinking that
this is not happening or that the
potential of intelligence intelligent
life forms exists other than humans
even more alarming is the fact that
these eyewitnesses are many of times
service members and have no assurance
that their lives will not be negatively
impacted or even harmed by their
experiences
in being an active duty service member
working on an Airfield I've had
conversations with many Pilots where
they were in fear of coming forward for
Retribution and or being taken off
flight status
how do we know this because the
government has said nothing to assure us
otherwise they have also did nothing to
to calm the concerns of over 20 percent
of Americans who have reported to have
seen UFOs or uaps we are simply told not
to question the government and that the
government has it under control
today is the first hearing of its kind
where we'll attempt to get down to the
bottom of what is actually happening
with uaps but we'll hear from people who
have had personal sightings rather than
Pentagon bureaucrats who have always
been sent to Stonewall investigations
just so that the Press knows and the
people know we were even denied access
to a classified briefing in a skiff
prior to this hearing do the amount of
Hoops that we had to jump through to
Grant temporary clearance to witness
Crush who has knowledge of classified
information
it is time to have an open-minded
discussion on this topic to hear the
evidence and understand the magnitude of
what this means not just for our nation
but for Humanity thank you chairman I
yield back the rest of my time
thank you very much and I'd like to
thank you thank you and Mr burchett for
bringing this topic to my attention uh
now we'll recognize National Security
subcommittee ranking member Garcia for
10 minutes
well thank you Mr chairman and I want to
thank first our Witnesses for joining us
today I want to begin by thanking you
all for your service to our country I
mean for sharing your voices uh today
and your courage uh to be here as well
uh to Mr Graves uh particularly grateful
to you to spend some time uh that we had
um for you to share with Candor um some
of your experiences so I appreciate that
as well I do want to thank all the
members of our subcommittee today and
also those that are here and have waved
on for their incredible interest in this
issue uh particularly to Congressman
birchet I know that your leadership has
brought us to this place today and I
want to thank you for uh for that as
well as everyone else that's been
engaged in this work I also want to
thank the oversight staff who I know has
been working very hard to ensure uh that
today's hearing is serious that it's
transparent and that it also provides
appropriate answers as our oversight
body always demands now it's really
important that we're here in a
bipartisan way to have this conversation
which really to the heart of it is about
National Security and key to the
subcommittee's Core purpose this is the
subcommittee on National Security of the
oversight committee now our witnesses
will testify today that uaps have posed
a serious safety threat and we must
understand this more broadly we're
dealing with real questions that get to
the heart of our faith in government
faith in our institutions as we all know
is at an all-time low partisanship and
alternative facts make it too easy to
doubt narrative or into or our
institutions but this hearing will offer
the public unique perspectives building
on years of reporting by both federal
agencies and the Independent Media now
some of the earliest reporting on this
issue was a groundbreaking 2017 New York
Times report which we which revealed
research as we know now on unidentified
anomalous phenomena as many call UFOs by
the defense intelligence agency Mr
Graves and Commander forever's
experiences with uaps have also been
documented by the public not just by the
New York Times but CNN and many other
national news outlets now the office of
the Director of National Intelligence
has published public reports doc
committing uaps and on June 9th 2022
NASA announced that the agency is
commissioning a study to of course
examine unidentified anomalous phenomena
now the sheer number of reports
whistleblowers and stories of
unidentified anomalous phenomena should
raise real questions and warrant
investigation and oversight and that's
why we are here today now Pilots have
reported encounters for years now
because of the stigma around reporting
these incidents we still don't have a
complete picture of actually what's
going on particularly as our witnesses
will testify on the civilian side and
that is a real problem that we have
today in the country now it's very
important that we show that Democrats
and Republicans in Congress can come
together in a bipartisan way to cut
through misinformation and to look at
the facts in a serious and thoughtful
manner if we are to advance oversight
and public disclosure we must also gain
the broad support of the public we will
succeed getting facts out to the public
faster if there is a broad public
support as part of the process now I
understand fully the Department of
Defense is hesitant to share information
that could also undermine our national
security by revealing information on the
capabilities of our own aircraft our
sensors and other sensitive material at
the same time many people believe that
we're withholding information from them
and that is dangerous also I believe in
openness and transparency that is also
the role of Congress and I want to trust
that the American people will be able to
weigh the evidence and make up their own
minds now we have incidents where in
sensors sometimes even multiple types of
sensors detect things that we cannot
explain
uaps whatever they may be May pose a
serious threat to our military or
civilian aircraft and that must be
understood
now my career in training as a long time
and career educator and teacher and
researcher tell me that we should never
rule anything out
we know that our space of course is vast
and undiscovered
I also want to note that Mr Sean
Kirkpatrick director of the all domain
anomaly resolution office the component
of the dod office that investigates UAP
data has testified before the Senate
this year that his unit has found no
evidence of extra extra activity NASA
has also stated that they don't have
evidence of extraterrestrial life either
and we've heard this of course from some
of our government agencies and we should
remind viewers and Witnesses which I
think is really important that we also
cannot share classified information in
public settings but questions of course
remain
that people want to see data and
information for themselves the enormous
interest in the hearing today
underscores the importance of a fair and
open look at the evidence from Witnesses
who can share their unique perspectives
now I know I certainly have a lot of
questions I know that all the members of
our committee do as well
we should come to this hearing with an
open mind and we should not let our
existing ideas restrict us on either
side I hear over and over from many
agencies the stigma around reporting and
investigating uaps
prevents us from getting real answers we
know that whistleblowers have reported
harassment intimidation or stigma as
well and this is not acceptable if
people can't report incidents which
would have National Security or safety
implications then that also has serious
consequences for us as ranking member of
this subcommittee I know it's my I know
my job would be completely impossible if
whistleblowers or others feel
intimidated to come before this
committee we can't be afraid of asking
questions and we can't be afraid of the
truth I'm proud to say this that's a
hearing builds upon bipartisan work by
members of the House and Senate dating
many years back which is sought to
increase awareness within the Department
of Defense and more and to mandate more
of Congress of uaps we know the Senate
is taking up an amendment to their
defense authorization bill which will
create a commission with broad
declassification Authority and we can
all should all agree that that is an
important step members of both parties
and Senior officials in multiple
administrations have taken an interest
in this issue and we're proud to carry
and build that confidence in the
American people this hearing will also
not be the end of this discussion but a
new chapter and start to years and years
of work that many folks both in both in
the public and within government have
been working on we should encourage more
reporting not less on uaps the more they
under we understand the safer we will be
we looked your testimony from Witnesses
today with a long record of service to
the American people and with subject
matter expertise art Witnesses have a
unique opportunity to share the
prospective insights and their
experiences with the American people and
I encourage all of my colleagues to
engage with these difficult questions
with an open mind and to follow the
facts on behalf of our country I also
just want to say more broadly that we
should look at this hearing with and
believe that everything is on the table
as it relates to uaps I think we an open
mind is absolutely the best I want to
yield there are two and a half minutes
of the remainder of my time to the
representative from Florida
representative Moskowitz for an opening
statement he also has been very much
engaged in this issue and I want to
thank him for his leadership Congressman
uh thank you ranking member Garcia thank
you Mr chairman I want to thank uh Tim
burchett and Anna Paulina Luna for their
leadership in pushing uh this hearing
forward I want to thank obviously
committee staff and their staff working
on this on a bipartisan basis because
many Americans are deeply interested uh
in this issue and it shouldn't take the
potential of non-human origin to bring
us together
uh additionally I want to thank the
witnesses for for coming forward to
share your perspectives your thoughts
and the sightings of uaps unlike other
hearings many times in Congress you're
not here to help a political party but
you're here to share information with
the American people
and it's not something that is just
going on in this Administration it's
something that's uh spanned many
administrations for decades many
Americans have been fascinated by
objects mysterious and unexplained and
it's long past time that they got some
answers
the American public has a right to learn
about Technologies of unknown Origins
non-human intelligence and unexplainable
phenomena
those are not the words of a UFO Twitter
account though that is a direct quote
for majority leader Chuck Schumer that
the American public has a right to learn
about Technologies of unknown Origins
non-human intelligence and unexplainable
phenomena in an interview with Fox News
recent former Director of National
Intelligence John Radcliffe confirmed
the U.S government is aware a lot more
sightings of uaps and that they have not
made that information public I quote
there are a lot more sightings that have
not been made public Radcliffe said to
Fox News
for me this hearing is about
transparency we unfortunately live in a
time in which many people distrust
government and our institutions and over
classification of information away from
the American public or even Congress
contributes to today's Politics the
American people have regular questions
what are uaps how come the media doesn't
report more on them are they foreign
adversaries are the U.S technology are
they something else they ask themselves
how come when a Russian jet shoots
flares at one of our drones we have
perfect pictures and videos to show the
American people and the world but when
it comes to uaps nothing
of course we must always protect our
national security to maintain our
superiority like when stealth
helicopters were only rumored to exist
but were used in the Osama Bin Laden
raid in 2011. but we can't allow that to
be used as a shield to keep the American
people completely in the dark from basic
truths the American people deserve to
hear more about special access programs
Congress has a right to know if there's
any unsanctioned weapons development
satellite imagery that has not been
provided to Congress
Congress created the all-domain
resolution office in the ndaa of 2022.
in its initial analysis there are 171
uncharacterized UAP reports and this is
the words from the report that appear to
have demonstrated unusual flight
characteristics or performance
capabilities
I believe more information is known
about the 171 instances
it's time for Congress to reinsert
ourselves I call on our military leaders
and intelligence officials to release
more information to the American people
about uaps
and to our military leaders if there's
nothing to conceal let Congress go to
write Patterson Air Force Base The
dugway Proving Ground or even Groom Lake
in Nevada
we should have disclosure today we
should have disclosure tomorrow the time
has come thank you ranking member
thank you Mr Moskowitz and I would yield
back now to our chairman thank you
right now I'd like to introduce our
Witnesses our first Witnesses Lieutenant
Ryan Graves he's the executive director
of Americans for safe Aerospace
Lieutenant Graves is also a former U.S
Navy F-18 pilot with the Zone UAP
experience the next witness David grush
is a former senior intelligence officer
with the National geospatial
Intelligence Agency and was a senior
technical advisor for UAP issues and
final finally retired Navy commanded
date Commander David fraber Squadron
leader who worked as an evil Aviator for
18 years Mr fraber has his own UAP
experience known as The Tick Tock event
I look forward to hearing from all three
of you today
pursuant to committee rule 9g the
witnesses will please stand and raise
their right hands
do you solemnly swear or affirm that the
testimony you are about to give is the
truth the whole truth and nothing but
the truth so help you guide
let the records show that all the
witnesses answer in the affirmative you
may be seated
we appreciate you all being here today
and look forward to your testimony I'll
remind the witnesses that we have read
your written statements and they will
appear in full in the hearing record
please try to limit your oral statements
to five minutes as a reminder please
press the button on the microphone in
front of you so that it's on and the
members can hear you when you begin to
speak the light in front of you will
turn green after four minutes it'll turn
yellow and the red light when that comes
on it tells you your five minutes have
expired I'll now recognize Mr Graves for
five minutes for your opening statement
thank you
chairman Rothman ranking member Garcia
distinguished members of the House
oversight subcommittee on National
Security representative burchett and
Luna
my name is Ryan fobs Graves and I'm a
former F-18 pilot with a decade of
service in the U.S Navy including two
deployments in operation enduring
freedom and operation inherent resolve I
have experienced Advanced UAP firsthand
and I'm here to voice the concerns of
more than 30 commercial air crew and
military veterans who have confided
their similar encounters with me
today I would like to highlight three
critical issues that demand our action
as we convene here UAP are in our
airspace but they are grossly under
reported these sightings are not rare or
isolated they are routine military
aircrew and commercial pilots trained
observers whose lives depend on accurate
identification are frequently witnessing
these phenomena
the stigma attached to UAP is real and
powerful and challenges National
Security
it silences commercial pilots who fear
professional repercussions discourages
Witnesses it is only compounded by
recent government claims questioning the
credibility of eyewitness testimony
parts of our government are aware of
more about UAP than they let on the
excessive classification practices keep
crucial information hidden since 2021
all UAP videos are classified as secret
or above this level of secrecy not only
impedes our understanding but fuels
speculation and mistrust
in 2014 I was an F-18 foxtrot pilot in
the Navy fighter attack Squadron 11 the
red Rippers
and I was stationed at NAS Oceana in
Virginia Beach
after upgrades were made to our Jets
radar systems we began detecting unknown
objects operating in our airspace
at first we assume they were radar
errors but soon we began to correlate
the radar tract with multiple onboard
sensors including infrared systems
eventually through Visual ID
during a training mission in morning
area whiskey 72 10 miles off the coast
of Virginia Beach two F-18 Super Hornets
were split by UAP
the object described as a dark gray or a
black Cube inside of a clear sphere came
within 50 feet of the lead aircraft and
was estimated to be 5 to 15 feet in
diameter the mission Commander
terminated the flight immediately and
returned base
our Squadron submitted a safety report
but there was no official acknowledgment
of the incident and no further mechanism
to report the sightings
soon these encounters became so frequent
that aircrew would discuss the risk of
UAP as part of their regular pre-flight
briefs
recognizing the need for action and
answers I founded Americans for safe
Aerospace the organization has since
become a heaven for UAP Witnesses who
were previously unspoken due to the
absence of a safe intake process more
than 30 Witnesses have come forward in
almost 5 000 Americans have joined us in
the fight for a transparency at safe
aerospace.org
the majority of Witnesses are commercial
pilots at majority major airlines often
they are veterans with Decades of flying
experience Pilots are reporting UAP at
altitudes that appear above them at
forty thousand feet potentially in low
earth orbit or in the gray Zone below
the Carmen line
making inexplainable Maneuvers like
right-hand turns and retrograde orbits
or j-hooks
sometimes these reports are reoccurring
with numerous recent sightings north of
Hawaii and in the north of Atlantic
other veterans are also coming forward
to us regarding UAP Encounters in our
airspace
and oceans the most compelling involved
observations of UAP by multiple
Witnesses and sensor systems I believe
these accounts are only scratching the
surface and more will share their
experiences once it is safe to do so
in closing I recognize the skepticism
surrounding this topic
if everyone could see the sensor and
video data I witnessed our national
conversation would change
I urge us to put a size stigma and
address the security and safety issue
this topic represents if you appear
foreign drones it is an urgent national
security problem if it is something else
is an issue for science
in either case unidentified objects are
concerned for flight safety the American
people deserve to know what is happening
in our skies it is long overdue thank
you
Mr Rush
Mr chairman ranking members and
congressmen thank you I'm happy to be
here this is an important issue and I'm
grateful for your time
my name is David Charles grush I was an
intelligence officer for 14 years in the
both in the U.S Air Force both active
duty Air National Guard and Reserve at
the rank of major and most recently from
2021 to 2025 or excuse me 2023 at the
National geospatial Intelligence Agency
NGA at the gs-15 civilian level which is
the military equivalent of a full bird
colonel
I was my agency's co-lead and
unidentified anomalous phenomena and
transmedium object analysis as well as
reporting to the UAP task force uaptf
and eventually once it was established
the all domain anomaly resolution office
Arrow
I became a whistleblower through a PPD
19
urgent concern filing in May 2022 with
the intelligence Community Inspector
General
following concerning reports from
multiple esteemed and credentialed
current and former military and
intelligence Community individuals that
the U.S government is operating with
secrecy
above Congressional oversights with
regards to uaps
my testimony is based on information
I've been given by individuals with a
long-standing track record of legitimacy
and service to this country
many of whom also have shared compelling
evidence in the form of photography
official documentation and classified
oral testimony to myself and many my
various colleagues
I have taken every step I can to
collaborate this evidence over a period
of four years while I was with the UAP
task force and do my due diligence on
the individual sharing it this is
because of these steps I believe
strongly in the importance of bringing
this information before you
I am driven by a commitment of both to
truth and transparency
rooted in our inherent duty to uphold
the United States Constitution and
protect the American people
I'm asking Congress to hold our
government to the standard and
thoroughly investigate these claims
but as I stand here under oath now I am
speaking to the facts as I have been
told them
in the U.S Air Force in my national
reconnaissance office nro Reserve its
capacity I was a member of the UAP task
force from 2019 to 2021. I served at the
interro operations center on the
director's briefing staff which included
the coordination of the presidential
Daily Brief and supporting variety of
contingency operations which I was the
reserve Intelligence Division Chief back
up
in 2019 the UAP task force director
asked me to identify all special access
programs and controlled access programs
also known as saps and caps we needed to
satisfy our congressionally mandated
Mission and we were direct report at the
time to the depth sect deaf
at the time due to my extensive
executive level intelligence support
duties I was cleared to literally all
relevant compartments and in a position
of extreme trust both in my military and
civilian capacities
I was informed in the course of my
official duties of a multi-decade UAP
crash retrieval and reverse engineering
program
uh to which I was denied access to those
additional read-ons when I requested it
I made the decision based on the data I
collected to report this information to
my Superior
superiors and multiple inspectors
General and in effect becoming a
whistleblower
as you know I've suffered retaliation
for my decision but I am hopeful that my
actions will ultimately lead to a
positive outcome of increased
transparency
thank you and I'm happy to answer your
questions
thank you uh Commander favor
thank you thank you Mr chairman
Congressman Connor's women
um I want to first thank you for the
invitation to speak to the committee on
the UAP topic that has been in the news
for the past six years and seems to be
continuing to gain momentum
as you know my name is David fraver I'm
retired commander in the United States
Navy in 2004 I was a commanding officer
of Strike Fighter Squadron 41 the world
famous Black Aces if you're a test to
carrier airing 11 station on board the
USS Nimitz and have begun a two-month
workup cycle off the coast of California
on this day we were scheduled for a 2v2
area training with the USS Princeton as
our control
when we launched off knits my wingman
was joining up we were told that the
training was going to be suspended and
we're doing we're going to proceed with
real world tasking
as we proceeded to the West here
controller was counting down the range
to an object that we were going to and
we were unaware of what we were going to
see when we arrived
their uh the controller told us that
these objects had been observed for over
two weeks coming down from over 80 000
feet rapidly descending to 20 000 feet
hanging out for hours and then going
straight back up for those who don't
realize above 80 000 feet is space
we arrived at the location at
approximately 20 000 feet in a
controller called merge plot which means
that our radar blip was now in the same
resolution cell as the contact
as we looked around we noticed that we
saw some white water off our right side
it's important to note the weather on
this day was as close to perfect as you
could ask for off the coast of San Diego
clear skies light winds calm seas no
White Caps from waves so the White Water
stood out in a large Blue Ocean
all four of us because we were in f-18fs
so we had pilots and wizo in the back
seat looked down a small saw white Tic
Tac object with a longitudinal axis
pointing North South and moving very
abruptly over the water like a ping pong
ball there were no rotors no rotor wash
or any sign of visible control surfaces
like wings
as we started clockwise towards the
object My Wizard and I decided to go
down and take a closer look at the other
aircraft staying in High cover to
observe both us and the Tic Tac
we proceeded around the circle about 90
degrees from the start of our descent
and the object object suddenly shifted
its longitudinal axis aligned it with my
aircraft and began to climb
we continued down another 270 degrees
nose low where the Tic Tac or we
consumed 270 degrees toward and we went
nose load where the Tic Tac would have
been our altitude at this point was
about 15 000 feet and the Tic Tac was
about 12 000. as we pulled nose onto the
object within about a half mile of it it
rapidly accelerated in front of us and
disappeared our wing men roughly 8 000
feet above us lost contact also we
immediately turned back to see where the
white water was at and it was gone also
so as you started to turn back towards
the east the controller came up and said
sir you're not going to believe this but
that thing is at your cat Point roughly
60 miles away in less than a minute you
can calculate the speed we returned to
Nimitz we were taking off our gear we
were talking to one of my Cruisers
getting ready to launch we mentioned it
to them and they went out and luckily
got the video that you see that 90
second video what you don't see is the
radar tape that was never released and
we don't know where it's at of the act
of jamming that the object put on an
apg-73 radar and I can get into modes
later if you're interested
what is shocking to us is that the
incident was never investigated none of
my crew ever questioned tapes were never
taken and after a couple days it turned
into a great story with friends it
wasn't until 2009 until Jay Stratton had
contacted me to investigate
unbeknownstall he was part of the atip
program and the Pentagon led by
louisando
and there was an official official
report that came out that's now on the
internet years later I was contacted by
the other pilot Alex Dietrich and asked
if I'd been contacted and I said no but
I'm willing to talk
I was contacted by Mr Elizondo and we
talked for a short period of time and he
said we'd be in contact a few weeks
after that I was made a word that lewd
left the Pentagon in protest and joined
forces with Tom Delong Chris melon Steve
Justice and others to form two stars
Academy an organization that pressed the
issue with leading industry experts and
U.S government officials they worked
with Leslie Keane who was present today
Rob Blumenthal and Helene Cooper to
publish the articles in the New York
Times 2017 New York Times and it removed
the stigma on the topic of UFOs which is
why we're here today
those articles opened the door for the
government and public that cannot be
closed it has led to an interest from
our elected officials who are not
focused on Little Green Men but figuring
out where these crafts are where they
from the technology they possess how do
they operate it also led to the
Whistleblower protection act in the ndaa
there are multiple Witnesses coming
forward to say uh that have first-hand
knowledge and Mr grush has covered that
what concerns me is that there's no
oversight from our elected officials on
anything associated with our government
processing or working on Craft
I believe not from this world this issue
is not a full public disclosure that
could undermine National Security but it
is about ensuring that our system of
checks and balances Works across all
work done in the government using
taxpayer funds relative to government
programs even unacknowledged wave
programs have some level of oversight by
the appropriate committee members in the
House and Senate and this work that is
said to be occurring from whistleblower
testimonies should not be exempt in
closing I would like to say that the Tic
Tac object we engaged in 2004 was far
superior to anything that we had on time
have today or looking to develop in the
next 10 years if we in fact have
programs that possess this technology
and needs to have oversight from those
people that the citizens of this great
country elected an office to represent
what is best for the United States and
best for the citizens I thank you for
your time thank you very much
thank you very much and it was very
difficult for all of you all you've done
in the past to try to illuminate this
issue calling myself first for some
questions I'm going to start with Mr
graves are your Pilots our Pilots that
you interact with as part of your
organization do you feel adequately
trained and briefed on how to handle
encounters with uaps no right now uh
military witnesses to UAP have limited
options for reporting UAP but more more
concerning is that commercial uh
Aviation sector has not adapted to the
lessons that the military has
implemented
um the military and Department of
Defense has stated that UAP represent a
critical Aviation safety risk we have
not seen that that same that same
language being used in the commercial
markets they are not acknowledging this
risk okay what steps do you think you
have to be taken to improve a pilot's
UAP reporting
be it military or commercial
right now we need a system where Pilots
can report without fear of losing their
jobs there is a fear that the stigma
associated with this topic is going to
lead to professional repercussions
either through management or perhaps
through their yearly physical check so
having a secure system reducing the
stigma and making this available this
information available through the public
is going to reduce the concerns that
aircrew have could you just give me a
little idea that the degree to which
reports in the past are are not made
public right now
well I don't think there has been a
proper reporting system to gather those
reports and thus not report them so to
answer your question I think there is a
dearth of data due to the fact that the
reporting has been limited up to this
time could you tell me why you believe
it's
kind of play The Devil's Advocate a
reason why some of this stuff should not
be available to the public
there's certainly some National Security
concerns when we use our Advanced
sensors and our tactical Jets to be able
to identify these these objects however
there's no reason that the objects
themselves would be classified I would
be curious to see how the security
classification guideline actually spells
out the different nuances of how this
topic is classified from the from the
perspective of UAP not National Security
I'll give you a follow-up on that
assuming that there are reasons why not
all this should be made public this has
been around for a long period of time
um can you think of can any of the three
of you think of any reason why anything
related to uaps say 15 years and back
should not be immediately made public
one of it is uh acknowledging a
vulnerability both from a collection and
I'll just say A you know countermeasure
perspective so it's uh no we haven't
cracked for many years yeah even say 20
years back is there any reason why when
you go back that far things shouldn't be
made public
unless it shows a specific National
Security vulnerability as it relates to
a weakness and particular defenses okay
Mr fravor the Tic Tac incident that you
and that with that you were engaged
occurred in 2004 what kind of reporting
took place after that incident
a standard debrief where the back
seaters went down to our carrier Intel
Center and briefed what had happened
and that was it no one else talked to us
and I was in the top 20 in the battle
group no one came
that Captain was aware Admiral was aware
nothing was done you're commanding
officers provide any sort of
justification
no because I was a commanding officer of
the Squadron so no
was this incident the only UAP event
that you encountered while you were a
pilot yes it was okay
um this is for any one of you based on
based off of each of your experiences
and observations do you believe uaps
pose a Potential Threat to our national
security
yes and here's why
the the technology that we faced was far
superior than anything that we had
and you could put that anywhere if you
if you had one you captured one you
reverse engineered it you got it to work
you're talking something can go into
space go someplace drop down in a matter
of seconds do whatever it wants and
leave
and there's nothing we can do about it
nothing
okay either the other YouTube I would
also like to add from commercial
Aviation and Military Aviation
perspective we deal with uncertainty in
our operating space as a matter of of
our protection professional actions
identifying friend from foe is very
important to us and so when we have
unidentified targets and we continue to
ignore those due to a stigma or a fear
of what it could be that's an opening
that our adversaries can take advantage
of what what uh steps should we take in
to better understand and respond to UAP
Encounters in the interest of National
Security
there needs to be a location where this
information is centralized for
processing and there needs to be a
two-way communication Loop so the
operators on the front end have a
feedback and can can get best practices
on how to process information what to do
and to ensure that they they their
reporting is being listened to right now
there's not a lot of back and forth Mr
gresh in your complaint to the
intelligence Community inspector you
Inspector General you claim that you
believe information is being hidden what
kind of information do you think was
hidden and do you think it should remain
hidden
very briefly an unclassified manner as
you know the preponderance of my
complaint was classified to the
intelligence communities uh both
material acquisition and exploitation
activity
also baselining the uaps but not sharing
it with you know intelligence
professionals that are actually doing
step briefs to Pilots uh that that kind
of information yeah okay thank you very
much now we'll go to Mr Garcia thank you
um again thank you all for for your
service and for testifying today
um I want to just uh talk about the
uap's relates to what we're seeing in
the Pilot's interaction with uaps
particularly Mr Graves one of the I
think concerns that for members of this
committee is this idea that Pilots
there's no system to actually report
uaps and the stigma around pilots and so
could you can you just briefly you
mentioned that there are you working
with 30 Pilots right now that have had
encounters with uaps uh but you've also
I believe I'm discussed and know of many
more pilots this is just those that
you're currently working with is that
correct can you expand on that certainly
I'll break that down in two ways first
when we were first experiencing these
objects off the Eastern Seaboard in the
2014 to 2015 time period anyone that had
upgraded their radar systems were seeing
these objects so there was a large
number of my colleagues that were
detecting these objects off the Eastern
Seaboard they were further correlating
that information with the other onboard
centers and many of them also had their
own on eyesightings as well of these
objects now that was our personal first
firsthand experience at the time since
then as I've engaged this topic others
have reached out to me they share their
experiences both on the military side as
well as a commercial Aviation side on
the military Aviation side veterans that
have recently got out have shared their
stories and have expressed how the
objects we were seeing in 2014 2015
continued all the way to 2019 2020 and
Beyond and so it became a generational
issue for Naval aviators on the Eastern
Seaboard this was something we are
briefing to new students this is
something that was included in the
notice to Airmen to ensure that there
was no uh accidents and now with
commercial aviators they are reaching
out because they're having somewhat
similar experiences as our military
brothers and sisters but they do not
have any reporting system that they can
send this to and let me just add both to
to Mr fravor as well as Mr Graves not
having this system for for reporting
would you degree that is harmful to not
just our national security interests but
to understand this phenomenon of what's
happening with uaps
I think it's it's uh it's a it's
actually it's a travesty that we don't
have a system to correlate this and
actually investigate you know so if you
took the East Coast you know there's
there's Coastal Radars out there that
monitor our air defense identification
zone so out to 200 miles
uh they can track these you know so when
you see them they can actually go and
pull that data and and get maneuvering
and instead of just having the airplanes
there's other data sources out there and
I've talked to other government
officials on this so you need a
centrally located repository that these
reports go to so if you just stuck it in
dod you wouldn't get anything out of the
intelligence committee because they have
a tendency not to talk but if you had a
central location where these reports
would come in not just military but also
commercial Aviation because there's a
lot of that going on especially if you
talk to anyone that flies from here to
Hawaii over the Pacific they see odd
lights
so I think you need to develop something
that allows you a central point to
collect the data in order to investigate
Mr Graves
I will concur with everything Mr fraver
said I'll continue to say that the
commercial pilots that have reached out
to me through Americans for safe
Aerospace are doing so because they
don't feel there's another way for them
to report their safety issue and I think
one of the clear outcomes of this
hearing already is that there has to be
a safe and transparent reporting process
for Pilots both on the commercial side
and the military side to be able to
report uaps in a way that's also
transparent but also understands the
scope of our of our national security
interests and what uh may be classified
or not but I think there has to be some
sort of system and so that's something
that I hope can be an outcome that this
committee can can work on uh is there
anything else for just for the two of
you briefly Beyond this reporting system
that you think that we can do as a
government to encourage and facilitate
more civilian reporting
I'm just doing it right now okay great I
think this hearing is is going to show
the American people that their
government takes this topic seriously
and how
civilians that may not be Pilots what
kind of process could be in place for
civilians who are not pilots who may
have UAP encounters do either of you
have any suggestions that could
facilitate that my recommendations would
make would be to make that a sense a
sensor Centric operation in order to
make it as objective as possible okay
sir Mr favor no I agree with Mr Graves
on that okay
um just just briefly I also just want to
um note for particularly for the two
pilots that have a question for Mr grush
one of the things that I found
fascinating in our discussion Mr Graves
last night as well is that you've both
described
um uaps and formations and the way they
have they they they are observed in
space or or in our air and the way that
they move essentially
um ways in which current technology or
aircraft that we know of are unable to
actually function or move and so will
you just for the public record again
once once again
um just uh briefly uh just either
describe or note that aircraft are being
witnessed particularly by the 30 folks
that you're working with are essentially
outside the scope of anything that we
know of today in the technology we have
today Mr graves Mr favor
yes the objects that are being seen by
commercial pilots are performing
Maneuvers that are unexplainable due to
our current understanding of our
technology and our capabilities as a
country and that applies for the
military as well Mr
yeah I concur with that we have nothing
that can stop in midair and go the other
direction nor do we have anything that
can like in our situation come down from
space hang out for three hours and go
back up thank you my last question and
so and sometimes you I know that some
you have also said some of these answers
in the past we're trying to get them on
the public record as well which is
really important Mr gresh finally do you
believe that our government is in
possession of uaps
absolutely based on interviewing uh over
40 Witnesses over four years and and
where
I know the exact locations and those
locations were provided to the Inspector
General and some of which to the
intelligence committees I actually had
the people with the first-hand knowledge
um provide a protected disclosure to the
Inspector General thank you and Mr
chairman I would just say that I think
that these questions are important
questions and I look forward to being
involved in the process to get those
answered I know there'll be a lot of
questions from the committee members so
I yield back
thank you we'll go to Mr Richard himself
thank you Mr chairman thank you Mr
Garcia I would like to have you on the
my legislation to do just that on the on
the reporting
um and we'll get together on that maybe
it could be my co-sponsor on that that'd
be really cool thank you for those great
questions
um
Mr Graves again I'd like to know how do
you know that these were not our
aircraft
some of the behaviors that we saw in a
working area we would see these objects
being at 0.0 Mach that's zero airspeed
over certain pieces of the ground so
what that means just like a river if you
throw a bobber in it's going to float
Downstream these objects were staying
completely stationary and category 4
hurricane winds these same objects would
then accelerate to supersonic speeds 1.1
1.2 Mach and they would do so in very
erratic and quick behaviors that we
don't I don't have an explanation for it
okay have you spoken to Commercial and
Military Pilots
that have seen these off of our East
Coast I have okay
um
Mr Fiverr I noticed that um
um in the Tic Tac video uh it's Tic Tac
like the candy not Tick Tock like the
Chinese Communist uh app that's correct
yes sir I just want to make that because
my daughter uh corrected me on that and
called me a boomer and say Boomer and I
said no baby it's Tic Tac like the candy
you're gonna have to just look it up and
um but now I would love what I like to
say today is a is a day of many first
it's a miracle that we're having this
this meeting and it's also a miracle
that my wife has put up with me for nine
years today today is my anniversary so I
want to tell my wife happy anniversary
and that I love her very much
um
as she likes to say this nine years have
been the best two years of her life so
thank you
um
Mr favor
what what astonished you the most about
the the flight capabilities of these Tic
Tacs very briefly
uh the performance
absolute performance it was and you're
you're not aware of any other objects
that anybody in the world has in this
world that has those capabilities no I
think it's far beyond actually our
Material Science that we currently
possess
are you aware of any other
reconnaissance platforms that attract or
recorded the Tic Tacs Maneuvers maybe
the NORAD system or any of the others I
am not okay Mr grosh
thank you for being here brother thank
you all very much
um have you faced any retaliation or
arrivals for any of your testimony or
anything
on these lines yeah uh I have to be
careful what I say in detail because
there is an open uh whistleblower
reprisal investigation on my behalf and
I don't want to compromise that
investigation by providing anything that
may uh
help provide somebody information but it
was very brutal and very unfortunate
some of the tactics they used to hurt me
both professionally and and personally
to be quite Frank yeah it's very
unfortunate as they say when you're over
the target that's when they do the most
firing at you do you have any personal
knowledge of people who've been harmed
or injured in efforts to cover up or
conceal these extraterrestrial
technology yes
personally
have you heard have anyone been murdered
that you would think that you know of or
have heard of I guess I have to be
careful asking that question I directed
people with that knowledge to the
appropriate authorities maybe in a um if
we could get it get in a confidential
area skiff we could talk about that but
unfortunately
we were denied access to the skiff
and that's very unfortunate in this in
this scenario
um
Mr favor
do you believe that you witnessed an
additional object under the water in
relation to your encounter
I will say we did not see an object
there was something there to cause the
white water and when we turned around it
was gone so there was something there
that obviously moved
okay it was it was not the same object
though that you were you were looking at
correct no we actually joked that the
Tic Tac was communicating with something
when we came back and because of white
water disappeared
we were in another instance we're told
about the capabilities of a jamming
during viewing of some when there were
some people chasing some of these
objects did you experience any of that
jamming or interrupting your radar or
weapon system my crew that launched
after we landed experienced significant
jamming today apg-73 radar which was
what we had on board which is a
mechanically scanned very high-end
system prior to the apg-79 and yes it
did pretty much everything you could do
range velocity aspect and then it hit
the lock and the targeting pod is
passive that's what we're able to get
the video on
I'm about to run out of time but um are
you aware of any of our enemies that
have that capability
okay I would also like to note for the
record that um like George Knapp
breaking Area 51 he's the reason I knew
about that and the reason I know about
the Tic Tacs is uh is Leslie Kane from
New York Times article and I would
encourage everybody to read that
thank you Mr chairman yield back to you
for no time very good Mr Raskin
thank you Mr chairman um Mr Graves
um you reported UAP encounters
um during training flights I think and
have since come forward to warn the
Pentagon that uh these encounters may be
putting Pilots at risk
um
my first question is
um you've identified these as taking
place on the east coast is it just on
the East Coast where these encounters uh
have been reported no since the events
initially occurred I've learned that the
objects have been detected essentially
where uh all operations Navy operations
are being conducted across the world and
that's from uh the ultimate anomaly
resolutions office reporting
all right can you describe your
experience after you decided to come
forward and
um go public with your um experience
certainly like many others in 2017 I saw
the New York Times article come out as
well and for me it was it was special
because I recognized the voices on the
video I recognized the video itself I
had seen it when it was taken I seen it
when it was debriefed and so that was
kind of shook me because I realized that
this problem was still ongoing and so I
reached out to colleagues back on the
east coast and realized that this was
still a safety risk that they were
dealing with that they had essentially
hit a wall with how they could move
forward on this conversation it was at
that point when I decided to try to move
the conversation forward myself
um are there common characteristics to
the uaps that have been cited by
different pilots and can you describe
what the convergence of descriptions is
certainly we were primarily seeing dark
gray or black cubes inside of a clear
sphere I'm sorry dark gray or black
cubes yes inside of a clear sphere where
the Apex or tips of the cube were
touching the inside of that sphere and
that was primarily what was being
reported when we were able to gain a
visual tally of these objects that
occurred over almost eight years and as
far as I know it's still occurring
[Music]
um
so the I take it that you're arguing
what we need is real transparency in a
reporting system so we can get some
clarity on what's going on out there
because there are many pilots in your
situation
um but we should have a way of
developing assist systematic inventory
of all of such encounters is that right
yes and I think we need both
transparency and the reporting we have
the reporting but we need to make sure
that information can be promulgated to
commercial Aviation as well as the rest
of the populace
um Mr Crush what about you what was your
experience after you came forward
well uh it's only been about two months
or so so I guess my experience has been
overwhelming support from uh former
colleagues of mine that have you know
privately messaged me and and I do
appreciate that uh but I I do have
knowledge of um
active planned reprisal activity against
myself and other colleagues and it's
very very upsetting to me coming from
where
uh certain senior leadership at previous
agencies I was associated with
and that's all I'll say publicly but I
can provide more details in a closed
environment okay well I I hope you
understand that
um there would be bipartisan rejection
of any attempt uh to vilify demonize or
engage in other reprisals against our
Witnesses and people who are telling the
truth from their perspective yeah there
were certain colleagues of mine that
were brutally administratively attacked
and it you know actually makes me very
upset to as a leader to see that happen
to other co-workers and actually
superiors of mine over the last three
years how do you account for that
response that seems like a bizarre
response I call it administrative
terrorism that's their their quiver
their tool in the toolbox to silence
people especially you know the career
government service cares about their
career cares about their clearance uh
their reputation to climb the ladder and
when you threaten that uh flow career
path a lot of people back off
but I'm here to represent those people
so
um Mr fravor what about you um what has
your experience been since you've come
forward with your perspective on this
actually I've been treated very well and
the six people that were involved myself
included
all of them have or will be retiring
from the military as 0506s and all my
friends that are very senior three and
four stars I've talked to them they they
believe they understand there's a
problem but no I was actually treated
really well and and what is your general
interpretation
um of these phenomena or what is your
current thinking of trying to make sense
of them well I'll say you know I'm not
like a UFO fanatic it's not it's not me
but I will tell you that what we saw
with four sets of eyes over a five
minute period
still there's nothing we have nothing
close to it it was it was amazing to see
I told my buddy I wanted to fly it but
yeah it's just an incredible technology
all right Mr chairman thank you very
much I yield back to you
uh thanks and Ms Luna
Mr grush in speaking to you yesterday
um I just wanted to follow up on
representative raskin's questions
in the last couple of years have you had
incidences that have caused you to be in
fear for your life for addressing these
issues
yes personally
yeah I just want everyone to note that
he's coming forward in fear of his life
to put in perspective if they were
really not scared about this information
coming out why would someone be
intimidated like that
um to your knowledge our nhis working
with adversarial foreign governments in
either technology exchange programs or
back engineering programs I don't have
data on that I'm not sure have you heard
or you had people come forward to
present that evidence
not that particular evidence that you
just exposed okay on the 19th of April
Dr Kirkpatrick head of Arrow had said
that he did not find any evidence of
uaps you also stated that you had in
your interview that you had briefed him
on information that you were uncovering
but that he did not follow up with you
were the items that you divulged to him
important to National Security
yes him and I had a classified
conversation in April 2022 before he
took over arrow in the July to 2022 and
I provided him some concerns I had do
you know why he might not have fallen up
with you
uh unfortunately I cannot read his mind
I wish she did I was I was happy to give
Sage counsel to him on where to look
when he took the Helm of Arrow
okay and then my last question for you
before I moved to Mr Graves is um you
received prior approval from the defense
department to speak on certain issues
correct
correct through uh dobster DOD
pre-publication and Security review and
I just want to remind the public uh
they're just looking from a security
perspective uh these are my own personal
views and opinions uh not the
Departments okay
so it does bring a certain amount of
credibility to your testimony I'm
required by law to do that as a Former
Intelligence officer or I go to jail for
revealing classified information we
don't want you to go to jail
um my next question would actually be
for Mr Graves can you please explain to
me in detail the event that occurred at
Vandenberg Air Force Base
certainly
in the 2003 time frame a large group of
Boeing contractors were operating near
one of the launch facilities at
Vandenberg Air Force Base when they
observed a very large 100 yard sided uh
ready Square approached the base from
the ocean and hover at low altitude over
one of the launch facilities
um this object remained for about 45
seconds or so before darting off over
the mountains there was a similar event
within 24 hours later in the evening
this was a morning event I believe 8 45
in the morning later in the evening post
sunset there were reports of other
sightings on base including some
aggressive behaviors these objects were
approaching some of the security guards
at rapid speeds before darting off and
this is information that was received
through one of the witnesses that have
approached me at Americans for safe
Aerospace was this documented in any
official form whether it was a police
blotter yes they had official
documentation and records from the event
that they witness held over the years
and I'm not going to ask you to do it
right now for time reasons but you would
be able to sketch what was when it's
correct and you've have you seen that
before on any other equipment and or
during your flight time I have not seen
what they've described this object was
estimated to be almost the size of a
football field and I have not seen
anything personally that large
okay and then um another question on
follow-up referencing the gimbal video
go fast incident um can you just clarify
because to our understanding the footage
was actually cut off at a certain point
but what happens at the end of that
video just for those Americans
specifically there that are wanting to
know about the rest of that footage
certainly uh there was some uncertainty
or um instability with the object it
seemed to rock a bit and that's the last
uh last size you know the video much of
the data that I would recommend be
analyzed would consist of radar data
that would provide precise kinematics on
the object as well as the fleet of
objects that were operating nearby okay
regards to the reporting
for the dress on as well as
representative burchett with the FAA to
your understanding Pilots that are
seeing this commercial airline pilots
are they receiving cease and desist
letters from corporations for coming
forward with information in regards to
safety for potential airline passengers
I have been made privy to uh
conversations with commercial aviators
who have received Seasons assist orders
so the American public should know that
corporations are putting their own
reputations on the basic not the line
but ahead of the safety of the American
people and I think would you agree with
that statement appears so okay
um I guess this would be my last I'm out
of time I yield
I'll be back
good Mr Moskowitz uh thank you Mr
chairman uh Gentlemen let's talk about
the laws of physics for a second
uh Mr Graves and and Commander favor I
heard you talk about speed
when those objects broke uh the sound
barrier did they make a sonic boom
I was in a jet you can't hear anything
it's kind of loud in there
yeah you're not able to actually uh
personally tell within the vehicle I
will say the objects that we were seeing
they were spherical and they were
observed up the Mach 2 which is a very
in uh non-aerodynamic shape what about
g-forces let's talk about g-forces of
those Vehicles could a human survive
those g-forces with known technology
today no no not for the acceleration
rates that we observed okay what about
what they look like how close did you
get did you see a seam or a rivet or a
section and what I mean is obviously the
Jets you're flying have all those things
did these objects have those
I didn't have I didn't have the detail
to be able to tell that
Barbara it's in airplanes that's
actually relatively close no it was
perfectly white smooth no windows
although when we did take the original
FLIR video that is out there when you
put it on a big screen it actually had
two little objects that came out of the
bottom of it but other than that no no
windows no seams no nothing Mr garage as
a result of your previous government
work have you met with people with
direct knowledge or have direct
knowledge yourself of non-human origin
craft
yes I personally interviewed those
individuals Mr grush as a result of your
previous government work have you met
with people with direct knowledge or
have direct knowledge yourself about ATS
Advanced Technologies that the US
government has
uh based on conventional Advanced Tech I
was brief to the preponderance of the
defense Department's both space and
Aerospace compartment of programs yeah
do you have knowledge or do you have
reason to believe that there are
programs in the advanced Tech space that
are unsanctioned
uh yes I do okay yeah and and when you
say that they're above congressional
oversight what do you mean
uh complicated question uh so there's
you know some I would call it abuse here
so Congressional oversight of
conventional special access programs so
I'll use title 10 so DOD as an example
right so 10 U.S code section 119
discusses congressional oversight of
saps discusses uh the the depth SEC
def's ability to waive Congressional
reporting however the gang of eight is
at least supposed to be notified if a
you know waived or wave bigoted
unacknowledged sap is created and that's
Public Law well so that how does I mean
I don't want to cut you off but how does
a program like that get funded
I will give you generalities I can get
very specific in a closed session uh but
a misappropriation of funds and uh does
that mean does that mean that there is
money in the budget that is set to go to
a program but it doesn't and it goes to
something else yes I have specific
knowledge of that yep do you think U.S
corporations are over over charging for
certain Tech they're selling to the US
government and that additional money is
going to programs correct through
something called irad okay
um
satellite imagery let's talk about
satellite imagery we have satellites all
over the place some that we're aware of
and many that we're not aware of right
we're taking pictures of everything at
every point in second uh Mr grush are
you aware do you have direct knowledge
or have you talk to people with direct
knowledge that there are satellite
imagery of these events
uh that was one of my primary tasks at
NGA since we uh process exploit and
disseminate that kind of information
I've seen multiple cases some of which
to my understanding and of course I left
NG in April so that's my information cut
off date uh but I personally
um reviewed both uh what we call
Overhead collection and from other
strategic and tactical platforms
that were I could not even explain
prosaically and I have a degree in
physics by the way as well and I had I
I'm aware that you guys have not seen
these
um reports unfortunately and I don't
know why it is do you have direct
knowledge we had spoken people with
direct knowledge that this imagery
applies to crash sites crash crash
imagery
I can't discuss that in an open session
okay
uh do you have any information that the
US government is involved in a
disinformation campaign to deny the
existence of certain uaps
I can't go beyond what I've already
stated publicly in my news Nation
interview because it touches other
sensitivities okay I'll yield the
balance of my time back thank you Mr
chairman
foreign
thank you Mr chairman and I thank our
Witnesses for being here today
Mr garoosh in your sworn testimony you
state that the United States government
has retrieved supposedly
extraterrestrial spacecraft and other
UAP related artifacts you go so far as
to state that the U.S is in possession
of quote
non-human spacecraft end quote and that
some of these artifacts have circulated
with defense contractors
several other former military and
intelligence officials have come forward
with similar allegations albeit and
non-public settings
however Dr Sean
Kirkpatrick the director of aaro
previously testified before Congress
that there has been and I quote
no credible evidence thus far of
extraterrestrial activity or of
quote off-world technology brought to
the attention of the office to your
knowledge is that statement correct
it's not accurate I believe Dr
Kirkpatrick
um mentioned he had about 30 individuals
that have come to Arrow thus far a few
of those individuals have also come to
arrow that I also interviewed and I know
what they provided Dr Kirkpatrick in
their team okay I was able to evaluate
okay information I need to go on sure
but
um
my understanding that this
his statement is accurate
came from a direct quote
and this contradiction is a perfect
example of why we need to inject
transparency into our government
and for another example look no further
than the pitiful response to the Chinese
Phi balloon debacle earlier this year
you may remember the mass confusion that
ensued when the balloon was first
spotted over Montana four days after it
first entered U.S airspace over Alaska
the Biden administration's initial
inability to address the object grew
into a continuous series of
embarrassments after news of the balloon
reached the Main Street me mainstream
media we were assured that the balloon
posed no threat to our security however
after the balloon was allowed to Transit
the entire continental United States
fighter jets were scrambled off the
coast of South Carolina to shoot it down
this flip-flopping and obfuscation
caused needless confusion fear and panic
across the country
It's My Hope Mr chairman that this sort
of confusion will not be repeated
we should investigate the extent to
which elements of our government possess
or do not possess information that is of
critical value to the American people we
owe it to the citizens of this nation to
make sure that our government is
transparent and accountable we must make
sure that our government provides
answers and Congress must do its duty to
solicit those answers with that Mr
chairman I yield back
yeah Mr Frost
thank you Mr chairman in 2022
NASA announced that it was commissioning
an independent study team to examine
uaps the NASA team is comprised of
scientists across different fields as
well as former astronauts and pilots in
May the independent study team held that
its first public meeting which included
the perspectives from NASA senior
leaders as well as perspectives from the
Department of Defense and intelligence
agencies the NASA study team is also
expected to release its first report
pretty soon and I think it's safe to say
that we all eagerly await its results Mr
Graves how might NASA's research
influence the commercial industry
regarding safety and UAP I think NASA
has a big role to play as far as
commercial Aviation safety and it's one
of their original charges as an
organization one of the recommendations
that have been put forward is to utilize
their existing Aviation safety reporting
system to serve as a short-term fill and
trusted platform for Pilots that want to
report on UAP it also has built-in
analytics capability and is funded by
Congress gotcha and also Mr graves are
there any other industries that may be
influenced by the NASA research on a
uaps and and if so how so well I think
there is a a large swath of commercial
capabilities that could be brought to
bear on this topic from space-based or
ground-based sensor systems that are
available open source or through
commercial marketplaces and I think
NASA's work as they work to identify and
highlight specific parameters that can
be found we can take that information
and and
promulgate this through the public
sector so that we can have more open
conversation about what we're seeing
yeah you know in 2020 the Department of
Defense released several videos of uaps
um including Mr freyjer's experience U.S
Navy Pilots that recorded footage in
2021 the office of the Director of
National Intelligence released a
preliminary report on UAP events NASA
administrator Bill Nelson stated that
NASA would begin to investigate these
events in fact I sit on science based
and Technology committee and when we
were doing a hearing with the NASA
administrator Bill Nelson I asked you
know why NASA needed to be fully funded
and there were many great reasons but
one of them was actually had to do with
uaps I mean he actually mentioned you
know is there life out there I don't
know and so either way these actions
ultimately LED NASA to assemble the
independent study team that I mentioned
earlier also in 2021 Harvard University
stood up the Galileo project to research
and examine the origins of UAP so it
seems like both you know from NASA and
in the higher education Community
because of the work that you all have
done and people standing up you know I
think we're seeing some of that stigma
um slowly going away Mr uh freyr do you
believe that military Pilots feeling
empowered to share their UAP experiences
has directly impacted the scientific
communities research goals on this topic
I would say yes I would say that you
know starting in 2017 when it actually
came out it took that stigma away I mean
I've talked to multiple Senators who
said prior to that if you mention UAP
you'd have been laughed off the hill and
now you we're sitting here today for a
public testimony on what's actually
going on you know I I'm hoping that this
Curve will be more of an exponential and
we'll get more and more transparent to
the level that we can yeah yeah and yeah
I mean it's important I couldn't imagine
you know I'm not a pilot but I used to
fly gliders in Civil Air Patrol huh yeah
I got a pilot yeah
um and so either way I mean I couldn't
imagine you know being being in the
glider and seeing something and then not
feeling like I had the agency to talk
about it
um Mr Graves can you discuss the
importance of seeking scientists to sit
on your Advisory Board absolutely I
think ultimately this is going to be a
scientific problem and not only that
it's also an engineering problem I've
been working with American Institute of
Aeronautics and astronautics to help
them stand up a UAP integration
committee to help integrate their
engineering prowess into this problem
and so yes very much I think this is an
engineering and scientific problem as
much as national security problem and
how might Congress help to facilitate
Partnerships between the scientific
community and the UAP focus groups
within government
well I think one of the things they can
do is to have these types of hearings to
communicate to the public that this is a
topic of Interest I think that there is
a pseudo-market if you will of
interested capabilities and talent that
want to approach this topic uh and we're
seeing that start to grow now so I think
continued conversation reduction of
stigma is going to allow that to
flourish and allow answers to help
generate themselves 100 well thank you
all for being here and thank you for
your work I think it's important that we
keep our top scientific Minds focused on
this issue and look for ways to increase
collaboration thank you so much I yield
back
Mr Comer
thank you Mr chairman let me say I want
to thank you for having this hearing I
want to thank Mr burchett Miss Luna for
leading this hearing and with that I
yield my five minutes to Mr burchett
thank you Mr chairman I'm going to
direct this I believe to Mr grush but if
any of you all feel like you need to
jump in Just Jump Right In we're good as
the U.S government become aware of
actual evidence of extraterrestrial
otherwise unexplained forms of
intelligence and if so when do you think
this first occurred
use the term non-human I like to denote
origin keeps the aperture open both
scientifically
certainly like I've discussed publicly
uh previously 1930s
okay
can you give me the names and titles of
the people with direct first-hand
knowledge and access to some of this
crash retrieval some of these crash
retrieval programs and maybe which
facilities military bases that would the
recovered material would be in and I
know a lot of Congress talked about
we're going to go to Area 51 and you
know I mean there's nothing there
anymore anyway it's just you know and we
move like a glacier as soon as we
announce it I'm sure the moving vans
would pull up but please
uh I can't discuss that publicly but I
did provide that information both to the
Intel committees and the Inspector
General and we could get that in this
give if we were allowed to get in a
skiff with you would that be probably
what you would think sure if you had the
appropriate accesses yeah what special
access programs cover this information
and how is it possible that they have
evaded oversight for so long
I do know the names once again I can't
discuss that publicly and how they've
evaded oversight I in a closed setting I
can tell you the specific tradecraft use
all right
when did when do you think those
programs began and who authorized them
I do know a lot of that information but
that's something I can't discuss
publicly because since all right many of
y'all want to jump in on any of this
you're more than welcome to
um what level of security clearance is
required to fully access these programs
and I say that because myself
um representative Gates and
representative Luna were basically
turned away at one point at Eglin so
please go right ahead uh certainly
difference between member access and say
somebody like me but anybody who has a
you know tssci clearance and meets the
eligibility criteria the access
adjudicative Authority should be able to
Grant you access Ms Merchant if you'll
yield so just to be put a fine point on
that
there's nothing that you're aware of
that's above special access program
classification it's a misnomer that
there's anything actually Above Top
Secret executive order 13526 delineates
the classification levels right and but
I I draw upon on that because we can
have access to to those programs and so
the notion that we're not being given
that access sort of defies our typical
muscle memory here in Congress thank you
Mr burchard I'll go back to you thank
you Mr Gates
um along those lines title tenant you
might not know this or not but title 10
and title 50 authorization
they seem to say they're inefficient it
so who gets to decide this in your
opinion in the past
uh it's a group of career
senior executive officials
okay are they government officials
they didn't announce do what both in and
outs of government and that's about as
far as all right well that's it leads to
my next question
which private corporations are directly
involved in this program how much
taxpayer money has been invested in
these programs to your knowledge
I mean we know we know we we audit the
Pentagon every year and I've been here
five years and they failed the dadgum
thing every year
uh lose over a billion dollars a year we
think and I've told the Department of
Defense maybe 60 percent of their assets
are unaccounted for whatever the heck
that means in the Public's sector you go
to jail for that kind of crap so tell me
yeah I know when I um I'm a dollar off
of my DTS travel voucher I get the
hammered but uh seems like it doesn't
work if you sell over six if you sell
over 600 worth of stuff on eBay now you
get a call from the IRS so please what
corporations yeah I don't know these
specific metrics towards the end of your
question uh the specific corporations I
did provide uh to the Committees in
specific divisions and
uh I spent 11 and a half hours with both
Intel committees okay has there been any
has there been an active U.S government
disinformation campaign to deny the
existence of
unidentified aerial phenomena and if so
why
it can't go beyond what I've already
exposed publicly about that
okay I've been told to ask you what that
what that is and how to get it in the
record
which uh what have you stated publicly
in your interviews for the Congressional
Record uh yeah if you reference my news
Nation interview and I talk about a
multi-decade you know campaign to
um just enfranchise public interest
basically yeah
apologize for Mr chairman I yield back
negative 21 seconds thank you Ms oh come
here ocasio-cortez
uh thank you Mr chairman and thank you
to our Witnesses for coming here today
um I do concur with the ranking members
well as several other members here on
this committee that this is a committee
for whistleblowers and for the
protection of whistleblowers as well so
we understand what you're putting
um on the table here and we're putting
on the line here and we thank you for
that uh Mr Crush you sat on the
unidentified anomalous phenomenon task
force created in the 2020 ndaa correct
yes there have been some things that uh
that have been mentioned here during
this hearing that I wanted to pick up on
um Mr Graves you mentioned specifically
during the answer to one of your
questions you named Boeing contractors
being engaged in an incident regarding
this Red Cube about a football
a football field wide I was wondering if
you could speak a little bit about the
interaction or Mr gresh either of you
the interactions between defense
contractor companies and any UAP related
programs or activities
so I'll just say that the information
about the contractor themselves were
provided by a witness and I have no
particular detail in that relationship
Mr gresh
the kind of General unclass wave tops
certainly the contractors you know or
the metal Benders so to speak the ones
actually uh doing specific performance
on government contracts are they
required um to issue any disclosure
regarding UAP sightings or do they
engage in any reporting around this uh
in terms of the contractors not that I'm
aware of they do not okay now when it
comes to notification that you had
mentioned about
um
irap program I read programs we have
seen defense contractors abuse their
contracts before through this committee
I have seen it personally and I have
also seen the notification requirements
to Congress abused
um I am wondering
one of the loopholes that we see in the
law is that there is at least from my
vantage point is that depending on what
we're seeing is that there are no actual
definitions or requirements for
notification are there
what methods of notification Did You
observe like when they say they notified
Congress how did they do that do you
have insight into that
for certain irad activities
I can only think of one's conventional
in nature
um sometimes they throw flow through
certain out of say sap programs that
have cognizant authority over
the Air Force or something and those are
congressionally reported compartments
but ired is literally internal to the
contractor so as long as it's money
either profits private investment Etc to
put a finer point on it when there is a
requirement for any agency or company to
notify or any agency to notify Congress
do they contact the chairman of a
committee do they get them on the phone
specifically is this through an email to
hypothetically a dead email box
a lot of it comes through what they call
the PPR periodic program review process
if it's a you know a sap or controlled
Access program equity and then those go
to the specific committees whether it be
the SAS task to see thank you
um I apologize I just my time is limited
um it Mr Graves one of your main
concerns that the FAA currently does not
have an official process to receive
reports of UAP from Pilots or others
correct correct and um in your
experience what data should the Aero
program prioritize for potential
collection we have you know location
date time but are there other specific
active
characteristics that should be included
in these reports certainly I think that
there's two categories that would be
important one would be kinematics and
understanding the specifics of how the
vehicle or objects are moving and the
second would be a more zoomed out
approach of being able to look at origin
and destination after before the
incident as well as getting a better
contextual understanding of how these uh
these objects are acting with each other
thank you now I
have a minute left I apologize we only
have five minutes today but
um
for the record if you were me where
would you look
titles programs
departments regions if you could just
name
anything and I put that as an open
question to the three of you
I'd be happy to give you that in a
closed environment I can tell you
specifically thank you
um Commander fraver
I would say and I've told people that
you have to know where to look they're
not going to divulge it to you because
the classification levels but if you
know where to look and who to talk to
which is exactly Mr Gresham point you
then you then you have them okay
Mr Graves I was an operator so I was
defending on folks like Mr garage to do
that homework
okay thank you very much are yield back
to the chair
Mr Biggs thanks thanks Mr chairman I
think the witnesses for being here today
I'm over here
thank you so much for being here
um
I I want to get into uh specifics here
and and the reason I'm going to go this
way is because
you've talked a bit about
um
what I would call misdirection by
official U.S government with regard to
uaps right
and so I'm going to get to that in a
second but last week White House
Tennessee spokesman John Kirby stated
that uaps are having an impact on our
training ranges and need to be treated
as a legitimate issue do you concur with
the statements that's for each of you
yes
yes okay
um
now having said that I'm going to take
you to specific instances around the
Phoenix Valley because that's where I I
live and in 97 we had the famous
Phoenix light case I don't know if any
of you are familiar with that
there were there were two things that
went along with that and the explanation
was
military training range off Luke and the
Barry Goldwater range
do you know anything different other
than the official explanation of those
lights
only what's in the public vernacular
about it that was outside the scope of
my
duties and if we wanted to just my
question along with my colleague from
New York Miss ocasio-cortez if we wanted
to find out more about that where would
we go to find the files and who where
and who would we address and are you
gonna tell me we need to go to this gift
so you can tell us in this gift
I could potentially give you a vector on
that that specific case I'm not I mean
I'm familiar with it in terms of public
but uh I I give you a vector in closed
environment yeah that would be good
thank you
so if if it's true that uaps are having
an impact on training ranges and this
Administration considers it to be a
legitimate issue what steps can Congress
take to address training range impacts
and I say that having two very large
training ranges in my state and so we'll
start with Mr gravesen going down the
panel
some of the initial procedures have been
implemented such as within the United
States Navy that have a range Fowler
report that gathers information from
Pilots I understand that a service-wide
reporting mechanism is still pending
however that would be a great Next Step
not only for gathering information but
for showing the troops that is an
acceptable topic and reducing the stigma
okay please all of you continue
yeah as a recipient of a lot of those
training range reports sometimes we only
get contextual kind of oral reporting
it'd be nice if they attached all sensor
data and there's a system in place that
can handle multiple classifications of
data and that's an issue with the F-35
right that jet was never built to be an
ISR platform and it's a pain in the
we'll say but to get that data off so
yeah great thank you yeah I would agree
with the previous two being a user of
those training ranges that the data has
to be out there you have to acknowledge
that you're seeing them and then you
have to collect the data right now you
get the report someone says I saw
something but no one collects the radar
data to back it up and do research okay
do you believe that the 2019
classification guidelines for uip's
interferes with the federal government's
ability to be transparent with the
American people and do you think we need
to be more transparent with the American
people
all of you yeah I'll say yes to that
familiar with the the at least the UAP
task force 2019 security classification
guide I think it's fair um I did
actually help uh author that with the oh
yeah you got a bias that way but I will
say uh I'll call it a lazy attitude
about declassifying videos I mean I've
seen some of the videos of you know the
recent shoot down and I saw no reason
that couldn't have been released as long
as they mask you know some data the
American people deserve to see that that
imagery and full motion video
uh I would think well in my opinion I
will say
things are overclassified I know for a
fact the video or the pictures that came
out in the 20 things 2020 report that
had the stuff off the east coast they
were taken with an iPhone off the east
coast a buddy of mine was one of the
senior people there and he said they're
originally classified a tssci and my
question to him was what's tssci about
these they're an iPhone right literally
off the vacapes that's not tssci so
they're over classified and as soon as
they do that they go in a vault and then
you all have to look for them yeah so
with the over classification that may be
one way are there other ways that the
dod or intelligence agencies are keeping
this information from the American
people or even from Congress
I think part of that has been uh not
encouraging reporting if the problem is
not something that can be measured it's
not something that's going to be fixed
okay very good with I'm out of time and
I thank you Mr chairman and now you'll
bet
uh first of all without objection
representative Nick Langworthy of New
York has waved on the subcommittee for
purpose of questioning Witnesses in
today's subcommittee hearing
and then we go to Mr Burleson
thank you Mr chairman
um appreciate you guys coming out today
testifying look I've been here for six
months and I'm pretty skeptical I don't
trust anything in this town
and um and so I and I think that's
because I'm from Missouri you've got to
show me right
um with that being said
um there's been a lot of things that
have been said
um in in the public uh Mr grush and and
so I want to get down this if we can
some specifics right so
um
at one point you had said that they're
they're they're
uh has been harmful activity or
Progressive activity has any of the
activity
um been aggressive been hostile in your
reports
uh I know of multiple colleagues of mine
that got physically injured and uh the
activity and I had to if I buy uaps or
buy
people within the federal government
both
okay so there has been activity by by
alien or
non-non-human technology and or beings
that has caused harm to
humans
uh I can't get into the specifics in an
open environment but at least the
activity that I
personally witnessed not to be very
careful here because you don't you know
they tell you never to acknowledge
tradecraft right so what I personally
witness myself and my wife was very
disturbing
okay
um one of my constituents actually sent
this next question and I figured I'd ask
it since I had the same thought you've
said that U.S and has intact spake
spacecraft you said that the government
has alien bodies or alien species
have you seen have you have you seen the
spacecraft
I have to be careful to describe what
I've seen firsthand and not in this
environment but I could answer that
question behind behind closed doors and
have you seen any of the bodies
that's something I've I've not witnessed
myself okay and so with that being said
you know and the other statement that
has been made that was intriguing to me
because and it's intriguing because my
my view has been that we are billions of
light years away from any any other
system and the concept that an alien
species that's technologically advanced
enough to travel billions of light years
gets here and somehow is incompetent
enough to not survive Earth or crashes
is is something that I find a little bit
far-fetched and with that being said you
have mentioned that there's
interdimensional potential could you
expound on that
oh yeah to answer your first question
and you know I'm here as a fact witness
an expert but I will give you a a
theoretical framework at least to work
off to kind of expose uh crashes uh
regardless of uh you know your level of
sentience right you know planes crash
cars crash and number of sorties what
however High a small percentage are
going to end in you know Mission failure
if you will as we say in the air force
uh and then in terms of uh
multi-dimensionality that kind of thing
the the framework that I'm familiar with
for example is something called the
holographic principle uh both uh it's it
drives itself from general relativity
and quantum mechanics and that is if you
want to imagine uh 3D objects such as
yourself casting a shadow onto a 2d
surface that's the holographic principle
so you can be projected quasi-projected
from higher dimensional space to lower
dimensional it's a scientific Trope that
you can actually cross literally as far
as I understand but there's probably
guys with phds that we can probably
argue about that but you have not seen
any documentation that that's what's
occurring uh only a theoretical
framework discussion okay
um okay
Occam's razor
my is that
this these aircraft
um have they been identified that they
are being produced by
by domestic
um you know military and um contractors
is there any evidence that that's what's
being recovered
uh not to my knowledge plus the
recoveries predate a lot of our Advanced
programs that I previously I'm witting
of so
um would it be safe to say that there
could be a scenario today where you have
an aircraft that crashes and because
it's been involved in one program from
One Federal agency and the but the but
the agency that retrieves it is not
aware of that program and to them it
appears alien in origin
I mean that's a hypothetical situation
I'm not aware of any uh historical
situation that would match that that you
described so you're not aware it has not
happened that you're aware of that I'm
aware of
um
thank you Mr chairman I yield back
several months ago my office received a
protected disclosure from Eglin Air
Force Base indicating that there was a
UAP incident that required my attention
I sought a briefing regarding that
episode and brought with me congressman
burchett and congresswoman Luna we asked
to see any of the evidence that had been
taken by flight crew in this endeavor
and to observe any radar signature as
long as as well as to meet with the
flight crew we were not afforded access
to all of the flight crew and initially
we were not afforded access to images
and to radar thereafter we had a bit of
a discussion about how authorities flow
in the United States of America and we
did see the image and we did meet with
one member of the flight crew who took
the image the image was of something
that I am not able to attach to any
human capability either from the United
States or from any of our adversary and
I'm somewhat informed on the matter
having served on the armed services
committee for seven years having served
on the committee that oversees DARPA and
Advanced Technologies for several years
um
when we spoke with the flight crew and
when he showed us the photo that he'd
taken I asked why the video wasn't
engaged why we didn't have a FLIR system
that worked here's what he said they
were out on a test mission that day over
the Gulf of Mexico and when you're on a
test mission you're supposed to have
clear air space not supposed to be
anything that shows up and they saw a
sequence of four craft
in a clear diamond formation
for which there is
a radar sequence that I and I alone have
observed in the United States Congress
one of the pilots goes to check out that
diamond formation and sees a large
floating what I can only describe as an
orb again like I said not of any human
capability that I'm that I'm aware of
and when he approached he said that his
radar went down he said that his flear
system malfunctioned and that he had to
manually take this image from one of the
lenses and it was not automatic
automated in collection as you would
typically see in a test mission so uh I
guess I'll start with Commander fraver
what in how should we think about the
fact that this craft that was approached
by our pilot uh had the capability of
disarming a number of the sensor and
collection systems on that craft
well I think this goes to that National
Security side and you can go back
through history of
things showing up in certain areas and
disabling our capabilities which is
disheartening and for us I mean like I
said it it completely disabled the radar
and aircraft when I try to do it the
only way we could see it is passively
which is how he got that image so I
think that's a that's a concern on what
are these doing not only how do they
operate but their capabilities inside to
do things like this and and how should
we think about for craft moving in a
very clear formation equidistant from
one another
in a diamond in all of the phenomenon
perhaps Mr grave that you've analyzed um
have we ever seen multiple craft in a
single formation
I have one particular case and that was
uh during the gimbal incident the
recording on the at FLIR system shows a
single object that rotates
um you hear the pilots refer to a fleet
of objects that is not visible on the
FLIR system and that was something that
I witnessed during the debrief as part
of the radar data on the situational
awareness page I would like to add
whoever Congressman there's a small uh
small bit of a uh anger I would say I
would feel that those Pilots are still
uh facing that difficulty in reporting
this topic and they don't have the tools
to be able to mitigate this issue it
just goes to show how serious this is
and why this is such an important issue
for our pilots and foreign Nation it was
stated explicitly to me by these test
pilots that if you have a u of AP
experience the best thing you can do for
your career is forget it and not tell
anyone because any type of reporting
either above the surface or below the
surface does have a perceived
consequence to these people and that is
a culture we must change if we want to
get to the truth Mr chairman I I would
observe that perhaps as we as we move
forward from this hearing there are some
obvious next steps every person watching
this knows that we need to meet with Mr
grush in a secure compartmentalized
facility so that we can get fulsome
answers that do not put him in Jeopardy
and that and that give us the
information we need second I would
suggest that the radar images from that
were collected of this formation of
craft out of Eglin Air Force Base and
specifically the actual image taken by
the actual flight crew that we can
actually validate be provided to the
committee subpoenaed if necessary so
that we're able to track how to get this
type of reporting and Analysis done in a
more fulsome way that would be my
recommendation humbly as a guest here of
the fine oversight committee I yield
back
Ms Mason
thank you Mr chairman and good morning
to our Witnesses who are testifying
today I want to thank each of you for
being here to discuss a topic of grave
importance to our national security
earlier this year Chinese spy balloon
was shot down off the coast of my home
state of South Carolina since the
Roswell incident in 1947 many Americans
have wondered about the dangers of
unknown objects crisscrossing our skies
whether these are uaps or weather
phenomena advanced technology from
American allied or enemy forces or
something more out of this world
so my first question I have several
questions and I'll I if we can just be
quick on these first two I'm going to
ask each of you the same question and
then I'll get to each of you
individually the first one when you
reported your experiences with a UAP did
any of you face any repercussions with
your superiors yes or no no
I've actually never seen anything
personally believe it or not so all
right and then do do you believe there's
an active disinformation campaign within
our government to deny existence of uaps
yes or no
I don't have an answer to that
as previous previously stated publicly
yes
I think previously with like Project
Blue Book yes but currently I don't
speak for the United States government
okay thank you
um I have a few questions for Mr Graves
what percentage of UAP sightings in your
belief go unreported by our Pilots
this is an approximation based off of my
personal experience speaking with a
number of Pilots but I would estimate
we're somewhere near five percent
reporting perhaps so like 95 basically
don't report
seeing UAP that's just my personal
estimate
um in the incident off Virginia Beach do
you believe the Navy took the danger to
your aircraft seriously after it was
reported absolutely
a few questions for Mr favor as an
expert Naval aviator have you ever seen
an object that looked and moved like the
Tic Tac UAP
did the Tic Tac UAP move in such a way
that defied the laws of physics
the way we understand them yes
many dismissed UAP reports as classified
weapons testing by our own government
but in your experience as a pilot does
our government typically test Advanced
weapon systems right next to
multi-million dollar Jets without
informing our Pilots no we have test
ranges for that
it took over 15 years for your encounter
with the Tic Tac to be Declassified do
you feel there was a good reason to
prevent lawmakers from having access to
this footage
no I just think it was ignored when it
happened and it just sat somewhere in a
file never got reported in a drawer it
happens a lot up here shocker Mr gresh a
couple of questions for you too sir this
morning what percentage of uaps do you
feel are adequately investigated by the
US government of the five percent that
are reported
um I can only speak for my personal
leadership over at NGA I tried to look
at every report that came through that I
could triage so do you believe that
officials at the highest levels of our
national security apparatus have
unlawfully withheld information from
Congress and subverted our oversight
Authority
there are certain elected leaders that
had more information that I'm not sure
what they've shared with certain gang of
eight members or Etc but uh certainly
I would not be surprised okay you've
stated that the government
possession of potentially non
-hit craft based on your experience and
extensive conversations with experts do
you believe our government has made
contact with intelligent
extraterrestrials
something I can't discuss in public
setting
um okay and I can't ask when you think
this occurred if you believe we have
crashed craft stated earlier do we have
the bodies of the pilots who piloted
this craft
as I've stated publicly already in my
news Nation interview biologics came
with some of these recoveries yeah
um
human biologics
non-human and that was the assessment of
people with direct knowledge on the
program I talked to that are currently
still on the program in was this
documentary references video photos
eyewitness like how would that be
determined
the specific documentation I would have
to talk to you in a skiff about gotcha
um okay so and you may or may not be
able to answer my last question and
maybe we get into a skiff at the next
hearing that we have but who in the
government either what agency sub-agency
what contractors who should be called
into the next hearing about uaps either
in a public setting or even in a private
setting and you probably can't name
names but what agencies or organizations
contractors Etc do we need to call in to
get these questions answered whether
it's about funding what programs are
happening and what's out there I can
give you a specific cooperative and
hostile witness list of specific
individuals that were in those and how
soon can we get that list
I'm happy to provide that to you after
the hearing super thank you and I yield
back
okay now we have Mr langworthy's here
okay
thank you very much uh I'd like to thank
uh all of the witnesses for being here
today uh to discuss this very unique
topic and I'd like to jump right into my
questions if you don't mind uh Commander
fraver can you briefly describe your
background
yeah I was enlisted Marine Naval Academy
graduate Navy flew for 18 years got a
master's from University of Houston and
I've worked in the private sector for
the last what now
19 16 years 17 years I do a lot of
Defense work so really gold-plated
credentials uh Commander fraver have
we've all seen the floating Tic Tac
video uh that you engage with on
November 14 2004. can you briefly talk
about why you were off the coast of San
Diego that day
yeah we were at a workup with all the
battle groups so we integrate the ships
with the carrier the airwing with the
carrier and we start working so we're
doing an air defense to hone not only
our skills but those are the USS
Princeton when they had been tracking
them for two weeks the problem was that
there was never manned aircraft Airborne
when they were tracking them and this
was the first day and unfortunately we
were the ones that were born and went
and saw it
but do you remember the weather that day
was it cloudy or windy or anything out
of the ordinary on the Pacific coast it
was actually if if you're familiar with
San Diego was a perfect day light winds
no White Caps clear skies not a cloud it
was for flying it was the best
now is it true that you saw in your
words a 40-foot flying Tick Tock shaped
object that's correct or for some people
that can't know what a Tic Tac is it's a
giant flying propane tank
fair enough did this object come up on
radar or interfere with your radar or
the USS Princeton the Princeton tractor
the Nimitz tractor the E2 tracked it
we'd never saw it on our Radars our Fire
Control radar has never picked it up the
other airplane that took the video did
get it on a radar as soon as it tried to
lock it it jammed the radar spit the
lock and he he's rapidly switched over
to the targeting pod which you can do in
the uh in the F-18
from what you saw that day and what
you've seen on video did you see any
source of propulsion from the flying
object including on any potential
thermal scans from your aircraft no
there's none there's no IR plume coming
out and Chad who took the video went
through all the EO which is black and
white TV and the IR modes and there's no
visual signs or propulsion it's just
sitting in space at 20 000 feet
in your career have you ever seen a
propulsion system that creates no
thermal exhaust no
can you describe how the aircraft
maneuvered
uh abruptly uh very determinate it knew
exactly what it was doing it was aware
of our presence and it had acceleration
rates I mean it went from zero to
matching our speed and
no time at all
now if the fastest plane on Earth was
trying to do these Maneuvers that you
saw would it be capable of doing that no
not even close
and just to confirm this object had no
wings correct no wings
now was the aircraft that you were
flying was it armed
no never felt threatened at all
if if the aircraft was armed you believe
the Euro aircraft or any aircraft in
possession of the United States could
have shot the Tic Tac down
I'd say no just on the performance it
would just left
in a Split Second
it looks like
we have a problem here that needs
further investigation yes
uh
in your belief is this
this flying Tic Tac I mean is this is it
capable of being the product of any
other Nation on the Earth
no I actually I said like I said earlier
I think it defies current Material
Science and the ability to develop that
much propulsion and I know there's been
some physicists have done calculations
which is beyond anything that we have
well either the United States has an
adversary here in this world that we
don't know or we really have some
serious investigations to do I I really
appreciate you being here
um is there anything else about the
November 14 2004 incident that you think
is important for this committee to know
that you haven't been asked here today
no I I you know it's it's been said it's
probably the most credible UFO sighting
in history based on all the sensors that
we're tracking it and then for us to get
Visual and to go against the naysayers
it's something on the screen or whatever
I mean there's four sets of human
eyeballs we're all very credible of the
six of us that were involved in the
thing including the video every one of
us is going to do 20 plus years in the
military in very responsible positions
so I'd say the world needs to know that
this it's not a joke thank you very much
for your testimony here today for all of
you and I yield back Mr chairman
as drawless
thank you Mr chairman and thank you all
for being here and the courage it took
to come forward and again the sacrifice
that each you have made
um I serve on the national security
subcommittee for the financial services
committee so I really want to stay in
the National Security Lane if I may so
when we think about traditional
adversaries and both us towards them and
them towards us you know we probe their
capabilities we look for weaknesses and
we we collect that data that
reconnaissance for in the in the event
we need it in the future
[Music]
um
for each of you yes or no question based
off of your own experience or the data
that you've been privy to is there any
indication that these uaps could be
essentially
collecting reconnaissance information Mr
Graves
yes
Mr grush Fair assessment yeah Mr fraver
very possible
again in the National Security of aim is
it possible that these uaps would be
probing our capabilities yes or no Mr
Graves yes yes braver definitely
is it possible that these uaps are
testing for vulnerabilities in our
current systems yes
yes
possible
do you feel based off of your experience
and information that you've been privy
to that these UOP uaps provide an
existential threat to the National
Security of the United States Mr Graves
potentially yes sir potentially
uh same answer potentially yeah I'd say
definitely potentially Mr Graves and
fraver you know in the event that your
encounters have become hostile would you
have would have would you have had the
capability to defend yourself your crew
your aircraft absolutely not sir no
is based off of the information that
you've been privy to is there any
indication that these uaps are
interested in our nuclear technology and
capabilities yes
by external observation sure that could
be a fair assessment yeah yes
is there any indication that department
of energy is involved in UAP data
collection and housing I don't have an
answer
I can't confirm or deny that in a public
setting and could you do it in a secure
setting
yes Mr favor no I don't know
Mr chairman
um you know I think I'm the last member
to go but there clearly is a threat to
the National Security of the United
States of America as members of Congress
we have a responsibility to maintain
oversight and be aware of these
activities
so that if appropriate we take action
I would encourage the chairman to demand
that we have any and all but in
particular Mr grush talk to us in a
skiff
and if that access is denied I will
personally volunteer to initiate the
Holmen rule against any Personnel or any
program or any agency that denies access
to Congress Mr chairman with that I will
yield the remainder of my time to my
fellow colleague from Tennessee Mr
Bircher
thank you Mr chairman thank you Mr ogles
for the great questions brother
um Mr gresh I might have asked this
before but I want to make sure do you
have any personal knowledge of someone
who's possibly been injured working on
Legacy UAP reverse engineering
yes okay
um
how are they injured was it is it
something like a radioactive type
situation or something we didn't
understand I've heard people talk about
Havana syndrome type incidences what was
your recollection of that I can't get
into the specifics but you could imagine
assessing an unknown unknown uh there's
a lot of potentialities you can't fully
prepare for how do you think we ought to
handle UAP whistleblower complaints like
yours in the in the future
mind so you know PPD 19 process it goes
to the Intel committees uh either
through ppd19 or icd-120 there's not a
good way for the intelligence Community
Inspector General to provide that to
other committees and I asked my
information to be sent to the House and
Senate armed services committee because
there are title 10 equities at play but
there was no smooth process to do so
yeah it's a trash can
um are you aware of any individuals that
are participating in reverse engineering
programs for non-terrestrial craft
personally yes
uh you know anything that would be
willing to testify if there were
protections for them
certainly closed door and assurances uh
the breaking their NDA they're not going
to get administratively punished for
sale yeah I yield Mr chairman
thank you um I'm going to do something a
little bit out of the ordinary here
we're going to give three people a
chance at an additional three minutes so
Mr
merchant do you want to keep going
why don't you come back to me Mr
chairman
Miss Luna if she's on the issue on that
list
sure uh chairman I'd like to submit for
the record an article by news nation and
it follows Mr grush's full interview for
the record
without objection thank you
Mr grush
why is it that you refer to the
phenomenon as non-human intelligence why
deviate from the basis of
extraterrestrial life
I think the phenomenon is a very complex
and I like to leave an open mind
analytically to specific origin when you
say specific origin are you referring
can you elaborate on that for those that
might if it's a traditional
extraterrestrial origin or something
else that we don't quite understand
uh from either biological or
astrophysics perspective you know just
like the
keep an open mind on what it could be
yeah okay and uh referring to your news
Nation interview you had referenced
specific treaties between governments
um article 3 of the nuclear arms treaty
with Russia identify as uaps it
specifically mentions them to your
knowledge are there safety measures in
place with foreign governments or other
superpowers to avoid an escalatory
situation in the event that a UAP
um malevolent event occurs
uh yeah you're referring to actual a
public treaty in the U.N register it's
funny you mentioned that the agreement
on measures to reduce the risk of
outbreak a nuclear war sign in 1971
unclassified treaty publicly available
and If you cite the George Washington
University National Security archives
you will find the Declassified in 2013
specific Provisions in the specific uh
Red Line flash message traffic with the
specific codes pursuant to article 3 an
article uh also situation two which is
in the the previously classified NSA
archive what I would recommend and I I
tried to get access but uh I got a wall
of Silence at the White House
uh was the specific incidents when those
um message traffic was used I think uh
some scholarship on that would open the
door to a further investigation using
those publicly available information
thank you and then my last question with
51 seconds remaining you you mentioned
white collar crimes potentially being
um taking place in regards to a cover-up
can you please elaborate I have concerns
based on the interviews I conducted
under my official duties of potential
violations of the federal acquisition
regulations the far
thank you very much chairman I yield the
remainder of my time
okay we'll go to Mr Raskin for three
minutes
thanks Mr chair and I think the
witnesses for their endurance and
service today
Mr favor you've described your episode
in detail now and you call it uh the
most credible UF site UFO sighting in
history
um but I wonder
was this the first time that you
encountered a UFO or a UAP
in 2004 yes and what was your general
attitude or perspective on the UFO
discussion before that happened
I never felt that we were alone with all
the planets out there but I wasn't a UFO
person
I wasn't I wasn't watching History
Channel and mufon and all that
and
um have you read experiences or
encounters since that happened
no
um and so have you formed any general
conclusions about what you think you
experienced then
yes I think what we experienced was like
I said well beyond the Material Science
and the capabilities that we had at the
time that we have currently or that
we're going to have in the next 10 to 20
years
very good Mr grush
um you've been able to answer in great
detail on certain questions and then
other things you say you're not able uh
to respond to can you just explain where
you're Drawing the Line uh what's the
basis for that yeah based on my dobster
Security review uh and what they've
determined that is unclassified
I see so you're answering any questions
that just call upon your knowledge of an
unclassified questions but anything that
relates to classified matters you're not
commenting on in this context in an open
session but happy to participate in a
closed session at the right level yeah
okay
um and Mr Graves you've said that there
are dozens of fellow Pilots military
Pilots are there also commercial pilots
who've uh encountered the same the same
kind of sightings that you described
before they are similar Pilots
commercial pilots have uh less range and
less sensors to be able to reach out and
look for objects over a wide swaths of
airspace and so Pilots are seeing
commercial pilots RCM and they're
typically closer and the range of what
they're seeing is is pretty large
what is the most Vivid concrete sighting
with the naked eye
of the objects that you described before
the cube-like objects certainly I think
the most uh Vivid citing of that would
have been near a near mid-air that we
had at the entrance to our working area
one of these objects was completely
stationary at the exact entrance to our
working areas not only geographically
but also at altitude so it was right
where all the Jets are going essentially
on the Eastern Seaboard the two aircraft
flew within about 50 feet of the object
and that was a very close visual
sighting and you were in one of the
aircraft I was not I was there when the
pilot landed he canceled the mission
after and I was there he was in the
ready room with all his gear on with his
uh mouth open and I asked them what the
problem was and he said he almost hit
one of those darn things he said he was
50 feet away from it yes sir and his
description of the object was consistent
with the description you gave us before
a dark gray or a black Cube inside of a
clear sphere inside of a clear sphere
yes um and with no self-evident
propulsion system no wings no IR energy
coming off of the vehicle
um nothing tethering it to the ground
and that was that was primarily what we
were experiencing out there
I'm over time thank you very much for
your service and I yield back to Mr
chairman very good Mr Burchette
thank you Mr chairman this is for all
three of y'all starting Mr grades why
did you come forward on this issue
I came forward because I felt that my
colleagues did not have a way to
mitigate the safety threat and I wanted
to help them I was trained as an
aviation safety officer by the Navy and
this seemed it just it just felt right I
felt like I had to help the folks that
were still flying and dealing with this
Crush purely a sense of Duty I first
sworn oath when I was a Cadet 18 years
ago and I I still uphold that even out
of the uniform
Commander
I was pestered by a friend and I asked
why and he said you're the one person
that they can't discredit and you'll add
credibility to the New York Times
article and so after about six times I
said okay
um
this town isn't um made unfortunately by
people like you all
we thank you and I do want to also thank
the people in the audience and the
people that are watching this it can't
be people all over the world that have
kept this issue alive you've endured
criticism
and derogatory remarks and we're trying
to get to the bottom of it and so God
bless y'all thank you all so much we
really appreciate you guys and gals
um
[Applause]
that's why we need term limits y'all
keep clapping us politicians just keep
talking so
let me ask you all how can the public
contribute to UAP reporting and what
Avenues you think are available to the
public to report these sightings
right now I don't think there is a lot
of public options for the every man to
be able to report on this I think even
for professionals that have sensor data
that are seeing these on a regular basis
they're still hesitant to come forward
and so for the general public I think
encouraging the conversations that we're
having today looking for Technology
Solutions that can be distributed so the
objective data can be gathered is the
first place to go Mr garage I'll just
touch on The Whistleblower side of it I
do encourage you know current former
military intelligence community in
Industry contractors to come forward in
a legal way either through the IC or DOD
or whatever the cognizant digs are
um to lead you know lead you know join
me in this discussion
commander and I I guess I should say
this for the record my daddy was United
States Marine Corps First Marine
Division so overall yes sir he was old
school him and chesty puller on pillalu
so thank you brother wow yes um I'm not
I'm not anything like my daddy he was
incredible I'm very mediocre to say the
least but go ahead you seem to be doing
fine yeah uh for me uh you know I was an
accident investigator so the biggest
thing you need to learn and I think that
Witnesses need to to do is one don't try
and make the fish bigger than it was
stick to the facts write it down and
don't speculate what you think it is
because almost for your decision just
write the facts down we can get all the
facts together and we can start to
investigate and get a real honest story
instead of it was this big thank you and
I want to thank everybody we made
history today
Mr chairman I yield
thank you much Mr Garcia
I think I know now we're going to be
making some closing uh remarks and so I
just wanted to say a few things first uh
to our Witnesses I want to thank all of
you for uh for being here with us today
uh I know that um it takes a lot a lot
of Courage
um you're telling
um a really important information to
this committee and I just want to thank
you also for your all three of your
service to our country
um I also want to just note that today's
hearing
um was both important but also serious
and I want to thank our subcommittee
chairman Mr groffman I think for for
running a very fair and substantive
hearing I do want to thank the committee
staff on both sides for the amount of
work that it took to put this hearing in
place
um and certainly to all the members that
have been involved in this issue prior
to prior to the hearing I also want to
note for our Witnesses and for the
public that I'm I'm a freshman member of
Congress and I've only been here for
seven months but this is by far the most
bipartisan conversation and discussion
that I have seen happen in the Congress
and I think that a topic of this
significance as it relates to our
national security as it relates to
information that we're trying to gather
for the for the for the American public
uh does bring people together and I
think that's been really great uh to see
um I think it's also important to note
for the public we today in our hearing
we had on our side also both are full
ranking member which is Mr Raskin and
our vice ranking member which is Miss
ocasio-cortez uh both here at our
hearing I think it shows the importance
and seriousness that our side of the
aisle is taking to this important
hearing but also the broader issue as it
relates to working with our Republican
counterparts on this committee I want to
additionally add that I think and I
encourage I think it's really important
that we have and continue these
discussions and these hearings clearly
there's a lot of information that we
don't know but it's also very clear that
we have to continue our investigation
and accountability on asking the right
questions and ensuring that they're part
of the public record one thing that was
important today is some folks might
wonder you know why are we asking
questions that might already be out
there or that have been asked before
it's important that they're asked and
put into the public record as it relates
to this committee and so I want to thank
you for
um you know answering some questions
multiple times I know not just in maybe
meetings you had with some members but
also here in in the public
let me also just add an additional note
that I it's it's important also that our
um our friends in the media and those
that are not just reporting on this
hearing but that reporter on this topic
that may in the future the media has an
important role uh in this process and
it's very important that the media
engages does independent investigation
and reports on not just what happened
today but what they what they see
independently as what has happened
around uaps in the broader community
that is also an important
um public benefit that we have in trying
to get the information and the facts as
it relates to this
let me also just say finally that as a
as a teacher and an educator in a long
time uh uh a long time teacher and
researcher that I also really believe in
following facts in doing your homework
and making sure that you follow science
uh as we try to get as much information
as possible and so I want to thank you
all for for agreeing to do that today
transparency is a Cornerstone of
government we live in a vast Galaxy a
lot of unanswered questions and thank
you all for being here today Mr chairman
thank you
um I'd like to one more time thank Mr
Burton Ms Luna for bringing this to our
attention it's a topic that has
interested me since I was in school it
was a very Illuminating uh hearing
obviously I think several of us are
going to look forward to getting some
answers in a more confidential setting I
assume some legislation will come out of
this
uh I
I'm sure I apologize Mr chairman I need
to compliment the folks in my office
that did a lot of the work on this of
Rachel and Noah sitting behind me here
they're very quiet and humble but if
without them this thing would not have
come off like it did so I apologize
thank you
um I think we're going to want to look
into what we can do to make more of this
information public
I think there's certainly a time period
after which it should always be made
public and people have been concerned
about these issues like I said since I
was in high school
um
but in any event like to thank everybody
who was here sticking through through
the entire hearing without objection the
members will have five legislative days
to submit materials and to submit
additional written questions for the
witness Witnesses which will be forward
to the witnesses for their response if
there's no further business about
objection the subcommittee stands
adjourned
foreign
